application/vnd.crick.clicker.wordbank		clkw
application/vnd.criticaltools.wbs+xml		wbs
application/vnd.cryptii.pipe+json
application/vnd.crypto-shade-file		ssvc
application/vnd.cryptomator.encrypted		c9r c9s
application/vnd.cryptomator.vault		cryptomator
application/vnd.ctc-posml			pml
application/vnd.ctct.ws+xml
application/vnd.cups-pdf
application/vnd.cups-postscript
application/vnd.cups-ppd			ppd
application/vnd.cups-raster
application/vnd.cups-raw
application/vnd.curl
application/vnd.cyan.dean.root+xml
application/vnd.cybank
application/vnd.cyclonedx+json
application/vnd.cyclonedx+xml
application/vnd.d2l.coursepackage1p0+zip
application/vnd.d3m-dataset
application/vnd.d3m-problem
application/vnd.dart				dart
application/vnd.data-vision.rdz			rdz
application/vnd.datalog				dl
application/vnd.datapackage+json
application/vnd.dataresource+json
application/vnd.dbf				dbf
application/vnd.debian.binary-package		deb ddeb udeb
application/vnd.dece.data			uvf uvvf uvd uvvd
application/vnd.dece.ttml+xml			uvt uvvt
application/vnd.dece.unspecified		uvx uvvx
application/vnd.dece.zip			uvz uvvz
application/vnd.denovo.fcselayout-link		fe_launch
application/vnd.desmume.movie			dsm
application/vnd.dir-bi.plate-dl-nosuffix
application/vnd.dm.delegation+xml
application/vnd.dna				dna
application/vnd.document+json			docjson
application/vnd.dolby.mobile.1
application/vnd.dolby.mobile.2
application/vnd.doremir.scorecloud-binary-document	scld
application/vnd.dpgraph				dpg mwc dpgraph
application/vnd.dreamfactory			dfac
application/vnd.drive+json
application/vnd.dtg.local
application/vnd.dtg.local.flash			fla
application/vnd.dtg.local.html
application/vnd.dvb.ait				ait
application/vnd.dvb.dvbisl+xml
application/vnd.dvb.dvbj
application/vnd.dvb.esgcontainer
application/vnd.dvb.ipdcdftnotifaccess
application/vnd.dvb.ipdcesgaccess
application/vnd.dvb.ipdcesgaccess2
application/vnd.dvb.ipdcesgpdd
application/vnd.dvb.ipdcroaming
application/vnd.dvb.iptv.alfec-base
application/vnd.dvb.iptv.alfec-enhancement
application/vnd.dvb.notif-aggregate-root+xml
application/vnd.dvb.notif-container+xml
application/vnd.dvb.notif-generic+xml
application/vnd.dvb.notif-ia-msglist+xml
application/vnd.dvb.notif-ia-registration-request+xml
application/vnd.dvb.notif-ia-registration-response+xml
application/vnd.dvb.notif-init+xml
application/vnd.dvb.pfr
application/vnd.dvb.service			svc
application/vnd.dxr
application/vnd.dynageo				geo
application/vnd.dzr				dzr
application/vnd.easykaraoke.cdgdownload
application/vnd.ecdis-update
application/vnd.ecip.rlp
application/vnd.eclipse.ditto+json
application/vnd.ecowin.chart			mag
application/vnd.ecowin.filerequest
application/vnd.ecowin.fileupdate
application/vnd.ecowin.series
application/vnd.ecowin.seriesrequest
application/vnd.ecowin.seriesupdate
application/vnd.efi.img
application/vnd.efi.iso
application/vnd.eln+zip				ELN
application/vnd.emclient.accessrequest+xml
application/vnd.enliven				nml
application/vnd.enphase.envoy
application/vnd.eprints.data+xml
application/vnd.epson.esf			esf
application/vnd.epson.msf			msf
application/vnd.epson.quickanime		qam
application/vnd.epson.salt			slt
application/vnd.epson.ssf			ssf
application/vnd.ericsson.quickcall		qcall qca
application/vnd.espass-espass+zip		espass
application/vnd.eszigno3+xml			es3 et3
application/vnd.etsi.aoc+xml
application/vnd.etsi.asic-e+zip			asice sce
application/vnd.etsi.asic-s+zip			asics
application/vnd.etsi.cug+xml
application/vnd.etsi.iptvcommand+xml
application/vnd.etsi.iptvdiscovery+xml
application/vnd.etsi.iptvprofile+xml
application/vnd.etsi.iptvsad-bc+xml
application/vnd.etsi.iptvsad-cod+xml
application/vnd.etsi.iptvsad-npvr+xml
application/vnd.etsi.iptvservice+xml
application/vnd.etsi.iptvsync+xml
application/vnd.etsi.iptvueprofile+xml
application/vnd.etsi.mcid+xml
application/vnd.etsi.mheg5
application/vnd.etsi.overload-control-policy-dataset+xml
application/vnd.etsi.pstn+xml
application/vnd.etsi.sci+xml
application/vnd.etsi.simservs+xml
application/vnd.etsi.timestamp-token		tst
application/vnd.etsi.tsl+xml
application/vnd.etsi.tsl.der
application/vnd.eu.kasparian.car+json		carjson
application/vnd.eudora.data
application/vnd.evolv.ecig.profile		ecigprofile
application/vnd.evolv.ecig.settings		ecig
application/vnd.evolv.ecig.theme		ecigtheme
application/vnd.exstream-empower+zip		mpw
application/vnd.exstream-package		pub
application/vnd.ezpix-album			ez2
application/vnd.ezpix-package			ez3
application/vnd.f-secure.mobile
application/vnd.familysearch.gedcom+zip		gdz
application/vnd.fastcopy-disk-image		dim
application/vnd.fdsn.mseed			msd mseed
application/vnd.fdsn.seed			seed dataless
application/vnd.ffsns
application/vnd.ficlab.flb+zip			flb
application/vnd.filmit.zfc			zfc
application/vnd.fints
application/vnd.firemonkeys.cloudcell
application/vnd.FloGraphIt			gph
application/vnd.fluxtime.clip			ftc
application/vnd.font-fontforge-sfd		sfd
application/vnd.framemaker			fm
application/vnd.fsc.weblaunch			fsc
application/vnd.fujifilm.fb.docuworks
application/vnd.fujifilm.fb.docuworks.binder
application/vnd.fujifilm.fb.docuworks.container
application/vnd.fujifilm.fb.jfi+xml
application/vnd.fujitsu.oasys			oas
application/vnd.fujitsu.oasys2			oa2
application/vnd.fujitsu.oasys3			oa3
application/vnd.fujitsu.oasysgp			fg5
application/vnd.fujitsu.oasysprs		bh2
application/vnd.fujixerox.ART-EX
application/vnd.fujixerox.ART4
application/vnd.fujixerox.ddd			ddd
application/vnd.fujixerox.docuworks		xdw
application/vnd.fujixerox.docuworks.binder	xbd
application/vnd.fujixerox.docuworks.container	xct
application/vnd.fujixerox.HBPL
application/vnd.fut-misnet
application/vnd.futoin+cbor
application/vnd.futoin+json
application/vnd.fuzzysheet			fzs
application/vnd.genomatix.tuxedo		txd
application/vnd.genozip				genozip
application/vnd.gentics.grd+json		grd
application/vnd.gentoo.catmetadata+xml
application/vnd.gentoo.ebuild			ebuild
application/vnd.gentoo.eclass			eclass
application/vnd.gentoo.gpkg			gpkg.tar
application/vnd.gentoo.manifest
application/vnd.gentoo.pkgmetadata+xml		
application/vnd.gentoo.xpak			xpak
application/vnd.geogebra.file			ggb
application/vnd.geogebra.slides			ggs
application/vnd.geogebra.tool			ggt
application/vnd.geometry-explorer		gex gre
application/vnd.geonext				gxt
application/vnd.geoplan				g2w
application/vnd.geospace			g3w
application/vnd.gerber
application/vnd.globalplatform.card-content-mgt
application/vnd.globalplatform.card-content-mgt-response
application/vnd.gnu.taler.exchange+json
application/vnd.gnu.taler.merchant+json
application/vnd.google-earth.kml+xml		kml
application/vnd.google-earth.kmz		kmz
application/vnd.gov.sk.e-form+xml
application/vnd.gov.sk.e-form+zip
application/vnd.gov.sk.xmldatacontainer+xml
application/vnd.gpxsee.map+xml
application/vnd.grafeq				gqf gqs
application/vnd.gridmp
application/vnd.groove-account			gac
application/vnd.groove-help			ghf
application/vnd.groove-identity-message		gim
application/vnd.groove-injector			grv
application/vnd.groove-tool-message		gtm
application/vnd.groove-tool-template		tpl
application/vnd.groove-vcard			vcg
application/vnd.hal+json
application/vnd.hal+xml				hal
application/vnd.HandHeld-Entertainment+xml	zmm
application/vnd.hbci				hbci hbc kom upa pkd bpd
application/vnd.hc+json
application/vnd.hcl-bireports
application/vnd.hdt				hdt
application/vnd.heroku+json
application/vnd.hhe.lesson-player		les
application/vnd.hp-HPGL				hpgl
application/vnd.hp-hpid				hpi hpid
application/vnd.hp-hps				hps
application/vnd.hp-jlyt				jlt
application/vnd.hp-PCL				pcl
application/vnd.hp-PCLXL
application/vnd.httphone
application/vnd.hydrostatix.sof-data		sfd-hdstx
application/vnd.hyper+json
application/vnd.hyper-item+json
application/vnd.hyperdrive+json
application/vnd.hzn-3d-crossword
application/vnd.ibm.electronic-media		emm
application/vnd.ibm.MiniPay			mpy
application/vnd.ibm.rights-management		irm
application/vnd.ibm.secure-container		sc
application/vnd.iccprofile			icc icm
application/vnd.ieee.1905			1905.1
application/vnd.igloader			igl
application/vnd.imagemeter.folder+zip		imf
application/vnd.imagemeter.image+zip		imi
application/vnd.immervision-ivp			ivp
application/vnd.immervision-ivu			ivu
application/vnd.ims.imsccv1p1			imscc
application/vnd.ims.imsccv1p2
application/vnd.ims.imsccv1p3
application/vnd.ims.lis.v2.result+json
application/vnd.ims.lti.v2.toolconsumerprofile+json
application/vnd.ims.lti.v2.toolproxy+json
application/vnd.ims.lti.v2.toolproxy.id+json
application/vnd.ims.lti.v2.toolsettings+json
application/vnd.ims.lti.v2.toolsettings.simple+json
application/vnd.informedcontrol.rms+xml
application/vnd.infotech.project
application/vnd.infotech.project+xml
application/vnd.innopath.wamp.notification
application/vnd.insors.igm			igm
application/vnd.intercon.formnet		xpw xpx
application/vnd.intergeo			i2g
application/vnd.intertrust.digibox
application/vnd.intertrust.nncp
application/vnd.intu.qbo			qbo
application/vnd.intu.qfx			qfx
application/vnd.ipld.car			car
application/vnd.ipld.dag-cbor
application/vnd.ipld.dag-json
application/vnd.ipld.raw
application/vnd.iptc.g2.catalogitem+xml
application/vnd.iptc.g2.conceptitem+xml
application/vnd.iptc.g2.knowledgeitem+xml
application/vnd.iptc.g2.newsitem+xml
application/vnd.iptc.g2.newsmessage+xml
application/vnd.iptc.g2.packageitem+xml
application/vnd.iptc.g2.planningitem+xml
application/vnd.ipunplugged.rcprofile		rcprofile
application/vnd.irepository.package+xml		irp
application/vnd.is-xpr				xpr
application/vnd.isac.fcs			fcs
application/vnd.iso11783-10+zip
application/vnd.jam				jam
application/vnd.japannet-directory-service
application/vnd.japannet-jpnstore-wakeup
application/vnd.japannet-payment-wakeup
application/vnd.japannet-registration
application/vnd.japannet-registration-wakeup
application/vnd.japannet-setstore-wakeup
application/vnd.japannet-verification
application/vnd.japannet-verification-wakeup
application/vnd.jcp.javame.midlet-rms		rms
application/vnd.jisp				jisp
application/vnd.joost.joda-archive		joda
application/vnd.jsk.isdn-ngn
application/vnd.kahootz				ktz ktr
application/vnd.kde.karbon			karbon
application/vnd.kde.kchart			chrt
application/vnd.kde.kformula			kfo
application/vnd.kde.kivio			flw
application/vnd.kde.kontour			kon
application/vnd.kde.kpresenter			kpr kpt
application/vnd.kde.kspread			ksp
application/vnd.kde.kword			kwd kwt
application/vnd.kenameaapp			htke
application/vnd.kidspiration			kia
application/vnd.Kinar				kne knp sdf
application/vnd.koan				skp skd skm skt
application/vnd.kodak-descriptor		sse
application/vnd.las				las
application/vnd.las.las+json			lasjson
application/vnd.las.las+xml			lasxml
application/vnd.laszip
application/vnd.leap+json
application/vnd.liberty-request+xml
application/vnd.llamagraphics.life-balance.desktop	lbd
application/vnd.llamagraphics.life-balance.exchange+xml	lbe
application/vnd.logipipe.circuit+zip		lcs lca
application/vnd.loom				loom
application/vnd.lotus-1-2-3			123 wk4 wk3 wk1
application/vnd.lotus-approach			apr vew
application/vnd.lotus-freelance			prz pre
application/vnd.lotus-notes			nsf ntf ndl ns4 ns3 ns2 nsh nsg
application/vnd.lotus-organizer			or3 or2 org
application/vnd.lotus-screencam			scm
application/vnd.lotus-wordpro			lwp sam
application/vnd.macports.portpkg		portpkg
application/vnd.mapbox-vector-tile		mvt
application/vnd.marlin.drm.actiontoken+xml
application/vnd.marlin.drm.conftoken+xml
application/vnd.marlin.drm.license+xml
application/vnd.marlin.drm.mdcf			mdc
application/vnd.mason+json
application/vnd.maxar.archive.3tz+zip		3tz
application/vnd.maxmind.maxmind-db		mmdb
application/vnd.mcd				mcd
application/vnd.medcalcdata			mc1
application/vnd.mediastation.cdkey		cdkey
application/vnd.medicalholodeck.recordxr	rxt
application/vnd.meridian-slingshot
application/vnd.MFER				mwf
application/vnd.mfmp				mfm
application/vnd.micro+json
application/vnd.micrografx.flo			flo
application/vnd.micrografx.igx			igx
application/vnd.microsoft.portable-executable
application/vnd.microsoft.windows.thumbnail-cache
application/vnd.miele+json
application/vnd.mif				mif
application/vnd.minisoft-hp3000-save
application/vnd.mitsubishi.misty-guard.trustweb
application/vnd.Mobius.DAF			daf
application/vnd.Mobius.DIS			dis
application/vnd.Mobius.MBK			mbk
application/vnd.Mobius.MQY			mqy
application/vnd.Mobius.MSL			msl
application/vnd.Mobius.PLC			plc
application/vnd.Mobius.TXF			txf
application/vnd.mophun.application		mpn
application/vnd.mophun.certificate		mpc
application/vnd.motorola.flexsuite
application/vnd.motorola.flexsuite.adsi
application/vnd.motorola.flexsuite.fis
application/vnd.motorola.flexsuite.gotap
application/vnd.motorola.flexsuite.kmr
application/vnd.motorola.flexsuite.ttc
application/vnd.motorola.flexsuite.wem
application/vnd.motorola.iprm
application/vnd.mozilla.xul+xml			xul
application/vnd.ms-3mfdocument			3mf
application/vnd.ms-artgalry			cil
application/vnd.ms-asf				asf
application/vnd.ms-cab-compressed		cab
application/vnd.ms-excel			xls xlm xla xlc xlt xlw
application/vnd.ms-excel.addin.macroEnabled.12	xlam
application/vnd.ms-excel.sheet.binary.macroEnabled.12	xlsb
application/vnd.ms-excel.sheet.macroEnabled.12	xlsm
application/vnd.ms-excel.template.macroEnabled.12	xltm
application/vnd.ms-fontobject			eot
application/vnd.ms-htmlhelp			chm
application/vnd.ms-ims				ims
application/vnd.ms-lrm				lrm
application/vnd.ms-office.activeX+xml
application/vnd.ms-officetheme			thmx
application/vnd.ms-pki.seccat			cat
application/vnd.ms-playready.initiator+xml
application/vnd.ms-powerpoint							ppt pps
application/vnd.ms-powerpoint.addin.macroEnabled.12				ppam
application/vnd.ms-powerpoint.presentation.macroEnabled.12			pptm
application/vnd.ms-powerpoint.slide.macroEnabled.12				sldm
application/vnd.ms-powerpoint.slideshow.macroEnabled.12				ppsm
application/vnd.ms-powerpoint.template.macroEnabled.12				potm
application/vnd.ms-PrintDeviceCapabilities+xml
application/vnd.ms-PrintSchemaTicket+xml
application/vnd.ms-project			mpp mpt
application/vnd.ms-tnef				tnef tnf
application/vnd.ms-windows.devicepairing
application/vnd.ms-windows.nwprinting.oob
application/vnd.ms-windows.printerpairing
application/vnd.ms-windows.wsd.oob
application/vnd.ms-wmdrm.lic-chlg-req
application/vnd.ms-wmdrm.lic-resp
application/vnd.ms-wmdrm.meter-chlg-req
application/vnd.ms-wmdrm.meter-resp
application/vnd.ms-word.document.macroEnabled.12				docm
application/vnd.ms-word.template.macroEnabled.12				dotm
application/vnd.ms-works			wcm wdb wks wps
application/vnd.ms-wpl				wpl
application/vnd.ms-xpsdocument			xps
application/vnd.msa-disk-image			msa
application/vnd.mseq				mseq
application/vnd.msign
application/vnd.multiad.creator			crtr
application/vnd.multiad.creator.cif		cif
application/vnd.music-niff
application/vnd.musician			mus
application/vnd.muvee.style			msty
application/vnd.mynfc				taglet
application/vnd.nacamar.ybrid+json
application/vnd.ncd.control
application/vnd.ncd.reference
application/vnd.nearst.inv+json
application/vnd.nebumind.line			nebul line
application/vnd.nervana				entity request bkm kcm
application/vnd.netfpx
application/vnd.neurolanguage.nlu		nlu
application/vnd.nimn				nimn
application/vnd.nintendo.nitro.rom		nds
application/vnd.nintendo.snes.rom		sfc smc
application/vnd.nitf				nitf
application/vnd.noblenet-directory		nnd
application/vnd.noblenet-sealer			nns
application/vnd.noblenet-web			nnw
application/vnd.nokia.catalogs
application/vnd.nokia.conml+wbxml
application/vnd.nokia.conml+xml
application/vnd.nokia.iptv.config+xml
application/vnd.nokia.iSDS-radio-presets
application/vnd.nokia.landmark+wbxml
application/vnd.nokia.landmark+xml
application/vnd.nokia.landmarkcollection+xml
application/vnd.nokia.n-gage.ac+xml
application/vnd.nokia.n-gage.data		ngdat
application/vnd.nokia.ncd
application/vnd.nokia.pcd+wbxml
application/vnd.nokia.pcd+xml
application/vnd.nokia.radio-preset		rpst
application/vnd.nokia.radio-presets		rpss
application/vnd.novadigm.EDM			edm
application/vnd.novadigm.EDX			edx
application/vnd.novadigm.EXT			ext
application/vnd.ntt-local.content-share
application/vnd.ntt-local.file-transfer
application/vnd.ntt-local.ogw_remote-access
application/vnd.ntt-local.sip-ta_remote
application/vnd.ntt-local.sip-ta_tcp_stream
application/vnd.oasis.opendocument.base						odb
application/vnd.oasis.opendocument.chart					odc
application/vnd.oasis.opendocument.chart-template				otc
application/vnd.oasis.opendocument.formula					odf
application/vnd.oasis.opendocument.formula-template
application/vnd.oasis.opendocument.graphics					odg
application/vnd.oasis.opendocument.graphics-template				otg
application/vnd.oasis.opendocument.image					odi
application/vnd.oasis.opendocument.image-template				oti
application/vnd.oasis.opendocument.presentation					odp
application/vnd.oasis.opendocument.presentation-template			otp
application/vnd.oasis.opendocument.spreadsheet					ods
application/vnd.oasis.opendocument.spreadsheet-template				ots
application/vnd.oasis.opendocument.text						odt
application/vnd.oasis.opendocument.text-master					odm
application/vnd.oasis.opendocument.text-template				ott
application/vnd.oasis.opendocument.text-web					oth
application/vnd.obn
application/vnd.ocf+cbor
application/vnd.oci.image.manifest.v1+json
application/vnd.oftn.l10n+json
application/vnd.oipf.contentaccessdownload+xml
application/vnd.oipf.contentaccessstreaming+xml
application/vnd.oipf.cspg-hexbinary
application/vnd.oipf.dae.svg+xml
application/vnd.oipf.dae.xhtml+xml
application/vnd.oipf.mippvcontrolmessage+xml
application/vnd.oipf.pae.gem
application/vnd.oipf.spdiscovery+xml
application/vnd.oipf.spdlist+xml
application/vnd.oipf.ueprofile+xml
application/vnd.oipf.userprofile+xml
application/vnd.olpc-sugar			xo
application/vnd.oma-scws-config
application/vnd.oma-scws-http-request
application/vnd.oma-scws-http-response
application/vnd.oma.bcast.associated-procedure-parameter+xml
application/vnd.oma.bcast.drm-trigger+xml
application/vnd.oma.bcast.imd+xml
application/vnd.oma.bcast.ltkm
application/vnd.oma.bcast.notification+xml
application/vnd.oma.bcast.provisioningtrigger
application/vnd.oma.bcast.sgboot
application/vnd.oma.bcast.sgdd+xml
application/vnd.oma.bcast.sgdu
application/vnd.oma.bcast.simple-symbol-container
application/vnd.oma.bcast.smartcard-trigger+xml
application/vnd.oma.bcast.sprov+xml
application/vnd.oma.bcast.stkm
application/vnd.oma.cab-address-book+xml
application/vnd.oma.cab-feature-handler+xml
application/vnd.oma.cab-pcc+xml
application/vnd.oma.cab-subs-invite+xml
application/vnd.oma.cab-user-prefs+xml
application/vnd.oma.dcd
application/vnd.oma.dcdc
application/vnd.oma.dd2+xml			dd2
application/vnd.oma.drm.risd+xml
application/vnd.oma.group-usage-list+xml
application/vnd.oma.lwm2m+cbor
application/vnd.oma.lwm2m+json
application/vnd.oma.lwm2m+tlv
application/vnd.oma.pal+xml
application/vnd.oma.poc.detailed-progress-report+xml
application/vnd.oma.poc.final-report+xml
application/vnd.oma.poc.groups+xml
application/vnd.oma.poc.invocation-descriptor+xml
application/vnd.oma.poc.optimized-progress-report+xml
application/vnd.oma.push
application/vnd.oma.scidm.messages+xml
application/vnd.oma.xcap-directory+xml
application/vnd.omads-email+xml
application/vnd.omads-file+xml
application/vnd.omads-folder+xml
application/vnd.omaloc-supl-init
application/vnd.onepager			tam
application/vnd.onepagertamp			tamp
application/vnd.onepagertamx			tamx
application/vnd.onepagertat			tat
application/vnd.onepagertatp			tatp
application/vnd.onepagertatx			tatx
application/vnd.onvif.metadata
application/vnd.openblox.game+xml		obgx
application/vnd.openblox.game-binary		obg
application/vnd.openeye.oeb			oeb
application/vnd.openofficeorg.extension		oxt
application/vnd.openstreetmap.data+xml		osm
application/vnd.opentimestamps.ots
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.custom-properties+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.customXmlProperties+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.drawing+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.drawingml.chart+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.drawingml.chartshapes+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.drawingml.diagramColors+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.drawingml.diagramData+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.drawingml.diagramLayout+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.drawingml.diagramStyle+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.extended-properties+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.presentationml.commentAuthors+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.presentationml.comments+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.presentationml.handoutMaster+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.presentationml.notesMaster+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.presentationml.notesSlide+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.presentationml.presentation	pptx
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.presentationml.presentation.main+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.presentationml.presProps+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.presentationml.slide		sldx
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.presentationml.slide+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.presentationml.slideLayout+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.presentationml.slideMaster+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.presentationml.slideshow		ppsx
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.presentationml.slideshow.main+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.presentationml.slideUpdateInfo+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.presentationml.tableStyles+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.presentationml.tags+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.presentationml.template		potx
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.presentationml.template.main+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.presentationml.viewProps+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.spreadsheetml.calcChain+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.spreadsheetml.chartsheet+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.spreadsheetml.comments+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.spreadsheetml.connections+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.spreadsheetml.dialogsheet+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.spreadsheetml.externalLink+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.spreadsheetml.pivotCacheDefinition+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.spreadsheetml.pivotCacheRecords+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.spreadsheetml.pivotTable+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.spreadsheetml.queryTable+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.spreadsheetml.revisionHeaders+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.spreadsheetml.revisionLog+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.spreadsheetml.sharedStrings+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.spreadsheetml.sheet		xlsx
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.spreadsheetml.sheet.main+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.spreadsheetml.sheetMetadata+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.spreadsheetml.styles+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.spreadsheetml.table+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.spreadsheetml.tableSingleCells+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.spreadsheetml.template		xltx
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.spreadsheetml.template.main+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.spreadsheetml.userNames+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.spreadsheetml.volatileDependencies+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.spreadsheetml.worksheet+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.theme+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.themeOverride+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.vmlDrawing
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.wordprocessingml.comments+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.wordprocessingml.document		docx
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.wordprocessingml.document.glossary+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.wordprocessingml.document.main+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.wordprocessingml.endnotes+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.wordprocessingml.fontTable+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.wordprocessingml.footer+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.wordprocessingml.footnotes+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.wordprocessingml.numbering+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.wordprocessingml.settings+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.wordprocessingml.styles+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.wordprocessingml.template		dotx
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.wordprocessingml.template.main+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.wordprocessingml.webSettings+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-package.core-properties+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-package.digital-signature-xmlsignature+xml
application/vnd.openxmlformats-package.relationships+xml
application/vnd.oracle.resource+json
application/vnd.orange.indata
application/vnd.osa.netdeploy			ndc
application/vnd.osgeo.mapguide.package		mgp
application/vnd.osgi.bundle
application/vnd.osgi.dp				dp
application/vnd.osgi.subsystem			esa
application/vnd.otps.ct-kip+xml
application/vnd.oxli.countgraph			oxlicg
application/vnd.pagerduty+json
application/vnd.palm				pdb pqa oprc
application/vnd.panoply				plp
application/vnd.paos.xml
application/vnd.patentdive			dive
application/vnd.patientecommsdoc
application/vnd.pawaafile			paw
application/vnd.pcos
application/vnd.pg.format			str
application/vnd.pg.osasli			ei6
application/vnd.piaccess.application-licence	pil
application/vnd.picsel				efif
application/vnd.pmi.widget			wg
application/vnd.poc.group-advertisement+xml
application/vnd.pocketlearn			plf
application/vnd.powerbuilder6			pbd
application/vnd.powerbuilder6-s
application/vnd.powerbuilder7
application/vnd.powerbuilder7-s
application/vnd.powerbuilder75
application/vnd.powerbuilder75-s
application/vnd.preminet			preminet
application/vnd.previewsystems.box		box vbox
application/vnd.proteus.magazine		mgz
application/vnd.psfs				psfs
application/vnd.publishare-delta-tree		qps
application/vnd.pvi.ptid1			ptid
application/vnd.pwg-multiplexed
application/vnd.pwg-xhtml-print+xml
application/vnd.qualcomm.brew-app-res		bar
application/vnd.quarantainenet
application/vnd.Quark.QuarkXPress		qxd qxt qwd qwt qxl qxb
application/vnd.quobject-quoxdocument		quox quiz
application/vnd.radisys.moml+xml
application/vnd.radisys.msml+xml
application/vnd.radisys.msml-audit+xml
application/vnd.radisys.msml-audit-conf+xml
application/vnd.radisys.msml-audit-conn+xml
application/vnd.radisys.msml-audit-dialog+xml
application/vnd.radisys.msml-audit-stream+xml
application/vnd.radisys.msml-conf+xml
application/vnd.radisys.msml-dialog+xml
application/vnd.radisys.msml-dialog-base+xml
application/vnd.radisys.msml-dialog-fax-detect+xml
application/vnd.radisys.msml-dialog-fax-sendrecv+xml
application/vnd.radisys.msml-dialog-group+xml
application/vnd.radisys.msml-dialog-speech+xml
application/vnd.radisys.msml-dialog-transform+xml
application/vnd.rainstor.data			tree
application/vnd.rapid
application/vnd.rar				rar
application/vnd.realvnc.bed			bed
application/vnd.recordare.musicxml		mxl
application/vnd.recordare.musicxml+xml
application/vnd.RenLearn.rlprint
application/vnd.resilient.logic			rlm reload
application/vnd.restful+json
application/vnd.rig.cryptonote			cryptonote
application/vnd.rim.cod								cod
application/vnd.route66.link66+xml		link66
application/vnd.rs-274x
application/vnd.ruckus.download
application/vnd.s3sms
application/vnd.sailingtracker.track		st
application/vnd.sar				SAR
application/vnd.sbm.cid
application/vnd.sbm.mid2
application/vnd.scribus				scd sla slaz
application/vnd.sealed.3df			s3df
application/vnd.sealed.csf			scsf
application/vnd.sealed.doc			sdoc sdo s1w
application/vnd.sealed.eml			seml sem
application/vnd.sealed.mht			smht smh
application/vnd.sealed.net
application/vnd.sealed.ppt			sppt s1p
application/vnd.sealed.tiff			stif
application/vnd.sealed.xls			sxls sxl s1e
application/vnd.sealedmedia.softseal.html	stml s1h
application/vnd.sealedmedia.softseal.pdf	spdf spd s1a
application/vnd.seemail				see
application/vnd.seis+json
application/vnd.sema				sema
application/vnd.semd				semd
application/vnd.semf				semf
application/vnd.shade-save-file			ssv
application/vnd.shana.informed.formdata		ifm
application/vnd.shana.informed.formtemplate	itp
application/vnd.shana.informed.interchange	iif
application/vnd.shana.informed.package		ipk
application/vnd.shootproof+json
application/vnd.shopkick+json
application/vnd.shp				shp
application/vnd.shx				shx
application/vnd.sigrok.session			sr
application/vnd.SimTech-MindMapper		twd twds
application/vnd.siren+json
application/vnd.smaf				mmf
application/vnd.smart.notebook			notebook
application/vnd.smart.teacher			teacher
application/vnd.snesdev-page-table		ptrom pt
application/vnd.software602.filler.form+xml	fo
application/vnd.software602.filler.form-xml-zip	zfo
application/vnd.solent.sdkm+xml			sdkm sdkd
application/vnd.spotfire.dxp			dxp
application/vnd.spotfire.sfs			sfs
application/vnd.sqlite3				sqlite sqlite3
application/vnd.sss-cod
application/vnd.sss-dtf
application/vnd.sss-ntf
application/vnd.stardivision.calc						sdc
application/vnd.stardivision.chart						sds
application/vnd.stardivision.draw						sda
application/vnd.stardivision.impress						sdd
application/vnd.stardivision.math						smf
application/vnd.stardivision.writer						sdw
application/vnd.stardivision.writer-global					sgl
application/vnd.stepmania.package		smzip
application/vnd.stepmania.stepchart		sm
application/vnd.street-stream
application/vnd.sun.wadl+xml			wadl
application/vnd.sun.xml.calc							sxc
application/vnd.sun.xml.calc.template						stc
application/vnd.sun.xml.draw							sxd
application/vnd.sun.xml.draw.template						std
application/vnd.sun.xml.impress							sxi
application/vnd.sun.xml.impress.template					sti
application/vnd.sun.xml.math							sxm
application/vnd.sun.xml.writer							sxw
application/vnd.sun.xml.writer.global						sxg
application/vnd.sun.xml.writer.template						stw
application/vnd.sus-calendar			sus susp
application/vnd.svd
application/vnd.swiftview-ics
application/vnd.sybyl.mol2			ml2 mol2 sy2
application/vnd.sycle+xml			scl
application/vnd.syft+json			syft.json
application/vnd.symbian.install							sis
application/vnd.syncml+xml			xsm
application/vnd.syncml.dm+wbxml			bdm
application/vnd.syncml.dm+xml			xdm
application/vnd.syncml.dm.notification
application/vnd.syncml.dmddf+wbxml
application/vnd.syncml.dmddf+xml		ddf
application/vnd.syncml.dmtnds+wbxml
application/vnd.syncml.dmtnds+xml
application/vnd.syncml.ds.notification
application/vnd.tableschema+json
application/vnd.tao.intent-module-archive	tao
application/vnd.tcpdump.pcap			pcap cap dmp
application/vnd.theqvd				qvd
application/vnd.think-cell.ppttc+json		ppttc
application/vnd.tmd.mediaflex.api+xml
application/vnd.tml				vfr viaframe
application/vnd.tmobile-livetv			tmo
application/vnd.tri.onesource
application/vnd.trid.tpt			tpt
application/vnd.triscape.mxs			mxs
application/vnd.trueapp				tra
application/vnd.truedoc
application/vnd.ubisoft.webplayer
application/vnd.ufdl				ufdl ufd frm
application/vnd.uiq.theme			utz
application/vnd.umajin				umj
application/vnd.unity				unityweb
application/vnd.uoml+xml			uoml uo
application/vnd.uplanet.alert
application/vnd.uplanet.alert-wbxml
application/vnd.uplanet.bearer-choice
application/vnd.uplanet.bearer-choice-wbxml
application/vnd.uplanet.cacheop
application/vnd.uplanet.cacheop-wbxml
application/vnd.uplanet.channel
application/vnd.uplanet.channel-wbxml
application/vnd.uplanet.list
application/vnd.uplanet.list-wbxml
application/vnd.uplanet.listcmd
application/vnd.uplanet.listcmd-wbxml
application/vnd.uplanet.signal
application/vnd.uri-map				urim urimap
application/vnd.valve.source.material		vmt
application/vnd.vcx				vcx
application/vnd.vd-study			mxi study-inter model-inter
application/vnd.vectorworks			vwx
application/vnd.vel+json
application/vnd.verimatrix.vcas
application/vnd.veritone.aion+json		aion vtnstd
application/vnd.veryant.thin			istc isws
application/vnd.ves.encrypted			VES
application/vnd.vidsoft.vidconference		vsc
application/vnd.visio				vsd vst vsw vss
application/vnd.visionary			vis
application/vnd.vividence.scriptfile
application/vnd.vsf				vsf
application/vnd.wap.sic				sic
application/vnd.wap.slc				slc
application/vnd.wap.wbxml			wbxml
application/vnd.wap.wmlc			wmlc
application/vnd.wap.wmlscriptc			wmlsc
application/vnd.wasmflow.wafl			wafl
application/vnd.webturbo			wtb
application/vnd.wfa.dpp
application/vnd.wfa.p2p				p2p
application/vnd.wfa.wsc				wsc
application/vnd.windows.devicepairing
application/vnd.wmc				wmc
application/vnd.wmf.bootstrap
application/vnd.wolfram.mathematica		nb
application/vnd.wolfram.mathematica.package	m
application/vnd.wolfram.player			nbp
application/vnd.wordlift
application/vnd.wordperfect			wpd
application/vnd.wqd				wqd
application/vnd.wrq-hp3000-labelled
application/vnd.wt.stf				stf
application/vnd.wv.csp+wbxml			wv
application/vnd.wv.csp+xml
application/vnd.wv.ssp+xml
application/vnd.xacml+json
application/vnd.xara				xar
application/vnd.xfdl				xfdl xfd
application/vnd.xfdl.webform
application/vnd.xmi+xml
application/vnd.xmpie.cpkg			cpkg
application/vnd.xmpie.dpkg			dpkg
application/vnd.xmpie.plan
application/vnd.xmpie.ppkg			ppkg
application/vnd.xmpie.xlim			xlim
application/vnd.yamaha.hv-dic			hvd
application/vnd.yamaha.hv-script		hvs
application/vnd.yamaha.hv-voice			hvp
application/vnd.yamaha.openscoreformat		osf
application/vnd.yamaha.openscoreformat.osfpvg+xml
application/vnd.yamaha.remote-setup
application/vnd.yamaha.smaf-audio		saf
application/vnd.yamaha.smaf-phrase		spf
application/vnd.yamaha.through-ngn
application/vnd.yamaha.tunnel-udpencap
application/vnd.yaoweme				yme
application/vnd.yellowriver-custom-menu		cmp
application/vnd.zul				zir zirz
application/vnd.zzazz.deck+xml			zaz
application/voicexml+xml			vxml
application/voucher-cms+json			vcj
application/vq-rtcpxr
application/wasm				wasm
application/watcherinfo+xml			wif
application/webpush-options+json
application/whoispp-query
application/whoispp-response
application/widget				wgt
application/wita
application/wordperfect5.1
application/wsdl+xml				wsdl
application/wspolicy+xml			wspolicy
application/x-123				wk
application/x-7z-compressed			7z
application/x-abiword				abw
application/x-apple-diskimage			dmg
application/x-bcpio				bcpio
application/x-bittorrent			torrent
application/x-cdf				cdf cda
application/x-cdlink				vcd
application/x-comsol				mph
application/x-cpio				cpio
application/x-csh				csh
application/x-director				dcr dir dxr
application/x-doom				wad
application/x-dvi				dvi
application/x-font				pfa pfb gsf
application/x-font-pcf				pcf pcf.Z
application/x-freemind				mm
application/x-ganttproject			gan
application/x-gnumeric				gnumeric
application/x-go-sgf				sgf
application/x-graphing-calculator		gcf
application/x-gtar				gtar
application/x-gtar-compressed			tgz taz
application/x-hdf				hdf
application/x-hwp				hwp
application/x-ica				ica
application/x-info				info
application/x-internet-signup			ins isp
application/x-iphone				iii
application/x-iso9660-image			iso
application/x-java-jnlp-file			jnlp
application/x-jmol				jmz
application/x-killustrator			kil
application/x-latex				latex
application/x-lha				lha
application/x-lyx				lyx
application/x-lzh				lzh
application/x-lzx				lzx
application/x-maker				frm maker frame fm fb book fbdoc
application/x-ms-wmd				wmd
application/x-ms-wmz				wmz
application/x-msdos-program			com exe bat dll
application/x-msi				msi
application/x-netcdf				nc
application/x-ns-proxy-autoconfig		pac
application/x-nwc				nwc
application/x-object				o
application/x-oz-application			oza
application/x-pkcs7-certreqresp			p7r
application/x-pki-message
application/x-python-code			pyc pyo
application/x-qgis				qgs shp shx
application/x-quicktimeplayer			qtl
application/x-rdp				rdp
application/x-redhat-package-manager		rpm
application/x-rss+xml				rss
application/x-ruby				rb
application/x-scilab				sci sce
application/x-scilab-xcos			xcos
application/x-sh				sh
application/x-shar				shar
application/x-silverlight			scr
application/x-stuffit				sit sitx
application/x-sv4cpio				sv4cpio
application/x-sv4crc				sv4crc
application/x-tar				tar
application/x-tcl				tcl
application/x-tex-gf				gf
application/x-tex-pk				pk
application/x-texinfo				texinfo texi
application/x-trash				~ % bak old sik
application/x-troff-man				man
application/x-troff-me				me
application/x-troff-ms				ms
application/x-ustar				ustar
application/x-wais-source			src
application/x-wingz				wz
application/x-www-form-urlencoded
application/x-x509-ca-cert			crt
application/x-x509-ca-ra-cert
application/x-x509-next-ca-cert
application/x-xfig				fig
application/x-xpinstall				xpi
application/x-xz				xz
application/x400-bp
application/xacml+xml
application/xcap-att+xml			xav
application/xcap-caps+xml			xca
application/xcap-diff+xml			xdf
application/xcap-el+xml				xel
application/xcap-error+xml			xer
application/xcap-ns+xml				xns
application/xcon-conference-info+xml
application/xcon-conference-info-diff+xml
application/xenc+xml
application/xfdf				xfdf
application/xhtml+xml				xhtml xhtm xht
application/xliff+xml				xlf
application/xml					xml
application/xml-dtd				dtd mod
application/xml-external-parsed-entity		ent
application/xml-patch+xml
application/xmpp+xml
application/xop+xml				xop
application/xslt+xml				xsl xslt
application/xspf+xml				xspf
application/xv+xml				mxml xhvml xvml xvm
application/yang				yang
application/yang-data+cbor
application/yang-data+json
application/yang-data+xml
application/yang-patch+json
application/yang-patch+xml
application/yin+xml				yin
application/zip					zip
application/zlib
application/zstd				zst

audio/1d-interleaved-parityfec
audio/32kadpcm					726
audio/3gpp
audio/3gpp2
audio/aac					adts aac ass
audio/ac3					ac3
audio/AMR					amr AMR
audio/AMR-WB					awb AWB
audio/amr-wb+
audio/annodex					axa
audio/aptx
audio/asc					acn
audio/ATRAC-ADVANCED-LOSSLESS			aal
audio/ATRAC-X					atx
audio/ATRAC3					at3 aa3 omg
audio/basic					au snd
audio/BV16
