The colortest.vim script can now be invoked directly with ":source" or
":runtime syntax/colortest.vim".

The 'statusline' option can be local to the window, so that each window can
have a different value.  (partly by Yegappan Lakshmanan)

The 'statusline' option and other options that support the same format can now
use these new features:
- When it starts with "%!" the value is first evaluated as an expression
  before parsing the value.
- "%#HLname#" can be used to start highlighting with HLname.

When 'statusline' is set to something that causes an error message then it is
made empty to avoid an endless redraw loop.  Also for other options, such at
'tabline' and 'titlestring'.  ":verbose set statusline" will mention that it
was set in an error handler.

When there are several matching tags, the ":tag <name>" and CTRL-] commands
jump to the [count] matching tag. (Yegappan Lakshmanan)

Win32: In the batch files generated by the install program, use $VIMRUNTIME or
$VIM if it's set.  Example provided by Mathias Michaelis.
Also create a vimtutor.bat batch file.

The 'balloonexpr' option is now |global-local|.

The system() function now runs in cooked mode, thus can be interrupted by
CTRL-C.

==============================================================================
COMPILE TIME CHANGES					*compile-changes-7*

Dropped the support for the BeOS and Amiga GUI.  They were not maintained and
probably didn't work.  If you want to work on this: get the Vim 6.x version
and merge it back in.

When running the tests and one of them fails to produce "test.out" the
following tests are still executed.  This helps when running out of memory.

When compiling with EXITFREE defined and the ccmalloc library, it is possible
to detect memory leaks.  Some memory will always be reported as leaked, such
as allocated by X11 library functions and the memory allocated in
alloc_cmdbuff() to store the ":quit" command.

Moved the code for printing to src/hardcopy.c.

Moved some code from main() to separate functions to make it easier to see
what is being done.  Using a structure to avoid a lot of arguments to the
functions.

Moved unix_expandpath() to misc1.c, so that it can also be used by os_mac.c
without copying the code.

--- Mac ---

"make" now creates the Vim.app directory and "make install" copies it to its
final destination. (Raf)

Put the runtime directory not directly in Vim.app but in
Vim.app/Contents/Resources/vim, so that it's according to Mac specs.

Made it possible to compile with Motif, Athena or GTK without tricks and still
being able to use the MacRoman conversion.  Added the os_mac_conv.c file.

When running "make install" the runtime files are installed as for Unix.
Avoids that too many files are copied.  When running "make" a link to the
runtime files is created to avoid a recursive copy that takes much time.

Configure will attempt to build Vim for both Intel and PowerPC.  The
--with-mac-arch configure argument can change it.

--- Win32 ---

The Make_mvc.mak file was adjusted to work with the latest MS compilers,
including the free version of Visual Studio 2005. (George Reilly)

INSTALLpc.txt was updated for the recent changes. (George Reilly)

The distributed executable is now produced with the free Visual C++ Toolkit
2003 and other free SDK chunks.  msvcsetup.bat was added to support this.

Also generate the .pdb file that can be used to generate a useful crash report
on MS-Windows. (George Reilly)

==============================================================================
BUG FIXES						*bug-fixes-7*

When using PostScript printing on MS-DOS the default 'printexpr' used "lpr"
instead of "copy".  When 'printdevice' was empty the copy command did not
work.  Use "LPT1" then.

The GTK font dialog uses a font size zero when the font name doesn't include a
size.  Use a default size of 10.

This example in the documentation didn't work: >
    :e `=foo . ".c"`
Skip over the expression in `=expr` when looking for comments, |, % and #.

When ":helpgrep" doesn't find anything there is no error message.

"L" and "H" did not take closed folds into account.

Win32: The "-P title" argument stopped at the first title that matched, even
when it doesn't support MDI.

Mac GUI: CTRL-^ and CTRL-@ did not work.

"2daw" on "word." at the end of a line didn't include the preceding white
space.

Win32: Using FindExecutable() doesn't work to find a program.  Use
SearchPath() instead.  For executable() use $PATHEXT when the program searched
for doesn't have an extension.

When 'virtualedit' is set, moving the cursor up after appending a character
may move it to a different column.  Was caused by auto-formatting moving the
cursor and not putting it back where it was.

When indent was added automatically and then moving the cursor, the indent was
not deleted (like when pressing ESC).  The "I" flag in 'cpoptions' can be used
to make it work the old way.

When opening a command-line window, 'textwidth' gets set to 78 by the Vim
filetype plugin.  Reset 'textwidth' to 0 to avoid lines are broken.

After using cursor(line, col) moving up/down doesn't keep the same column.

Win32: Borland C before 5.5 requires using ".u." for LowPart and HighPart
fields. (Walter Briscoe)

On Sinix SYS_NMLN isn't always defined.  Define it ourselves. (Cristiano De
Michele)

Printing with PostScript may keep the printer waiting for more.  Append a
CTRL-D to the printer output. (Mike Williams)

When converting a string with a hex or octal number the leading '-' was
ignored.  ":echo '-05' + 0" resulted in 5 instead of -5.

Using "@:" to repeat a command line didn't work when it contains control
characters.  Also remove "'<,'>" when in Visual mode to avoid that it appears
twice.

When using file completion for a user command, it would not expand environment
variables like for a regular command with a file argument.

'cindent': When the argument of a #define looks like a C++ class the next line
is indented too much.

When 'comments' includes multibyte characters inserting the middle part and
alignment may go wrong.  'cindent' also suffers from this for right-aligned
items.

Win32: when 'encoding' is set to "utf-8" getenv() still returns strings in the
active codepage.  Convert to utf-8.  Also for $HOME.

The default for 'helplang' was "zh" for both "zh_cn" and "zh_tw".  Now use
"cn" or "tw" as intended.

When 'bin' is set and 'eol' is not set then line2byte() added the line break
after the last line while it's not there.

Using foldlevel() in a WinEnter autocommand may not work.  Noticed when
resizing the GUI shell upon startup.

Python: Using buffer.append(f.readlines()) didn't work.  Allow appending a
string with a trailing newline.  The newline is ignored.

When using the ":saveas f2" command for buffer "f1", the Buffers menu would
contain "f2" twice, one of them leading to "f1".  Also trigger the BufFilePre
and BufFilePost events for the alternate buffer that gets the old name.

strridx() did not work well when the needle is empty. (Ciaran McCreesh)

GTK: Avoid a potential hang in gui_mch_wait_for_chars() when input arrives
just before it is invoked

VMS: Occasionally CR characters were inserted in the file.  Expansion of
environment variables was not correct. (Zoltan Arpadffy)

UTF-8: When 'delcombine' is set "dw" only deleted the last combining character
from the first character of the word.

When using ":sball" in an autocommand only the filetype in one buffer was
detected.  Reset did_filetype in enter_buffer().

When using ":argdo" and the window already was at the first argument index,
but not actually editing it, the current buffer would be used instead.

When ":next dir/*" includes many matches, adding the names to the argument
list may take an awful lot of time and can't be interrupted.  Allow
interrupting this.

When editing a file that was already loaded in a buffer, modelines were not
used.  Now window-local options in the modeline are set.  Buffer-local options
and global options remain unmodified.

Win32: When 'encoding' is set to "utf-8" in the vimrc file, files from the
command line with non-ASCII characters are not used correctly.  Recode the
file names when 'encoding' is set, using the Unicode command line.

Win32 console: When the default for 'encoding' ends up to be "latin1", the
default value of 'isprint' was wrong.

When an error message is given while waiting for a character (e.g., when an
xterm reports the number of colors), the hit-enter prompt overwrote the last
line.  Don't reset msg_didout in normal_cmd() for K_IGNORE.

Mac GUI: Shift-Tab didn't work.

When defining tooltip text, don't translate terminal codes, since it's not
going to be used like a command.

GTK 2: Check the tooltip text for valid utf-8 characters to avoid getting a
GTK error.  Invalid characters may appear when 'encoding' is changed.

GTK 2: Add a safety check for invalid utf-8 sequences, they can crash pango.

Win32: When 'encoding' is changed while starting up, use the Unicode command
line to convert the file arguments to 'encoding'.  Both for the GUI and the
console version.

Win32 GUI: latin9 text (iso-8859-15) was not displayed correctly, because
there is no codepage for latin9.  Do our own conversion from latin9 to UCS2.

When two versions of GTK+ 2 are installed it was possible to use the header
files from one and the library from the other.  Use GTK_LIBDIR to put the
directory for the library early in the link flags.

With the GUI find/replace dialog a replace only worked if the pattern was
literal text.  Now it works for any pattern.

When 'equalalways' is set and 'eadirection' is "hor", ":quit" would still
cause equalizing window heights in the vertical direction.

When ":emenu" is used in a startup script the command was put in the typeahead
buffer, causing a prompt for the crypt key to be messed up.

Mac OS/X: The default for 'isprint' included characters 128-160, causes
problems for Terminal.app.

When a syntax item with "containedin" is used, it may match in the start or
end of a region with a matchgroup, while this doesn't happen for a "contains"
argument.

When a transparent syntax items matches in another item where the highlighting
has already stopped (because of a he= argument), the highlighting would come
back.

When cscope is used to set the quickfix error list, it didn't get set if there
was only one match. (Sergey Khorev)

When 'confirm' is set and using ":bdel" in a modified buffer, then selecting
"cancel", would still give an error message.

The PopUp menu items that started Visual mode didn't work when not in Normal
mode.  Switching between selecting a word and a line was not possible.

Win32: The keypad decimal point always resulted in a '.', while on some
keyboards it's a ','.  Use MapVirtualKey(VK_DECIMAL, 2).

Removed unused function DisplayCompStringOpaque() from gui_w32.c

In Visual mode there is not always an indication whether the line break is
selected or not.  Highlight the character after the line when the line break
is included, e.g., after "v$o".

GTK: The <F10> key can't be mapped, it selects the menu.  Disable that with a
GTK setting and do select the menu when <F10> isn't mapped. (David Necas)

After "Y" '[ and '] were not at start/end of the yanked text.

When a telnet connection is dropped Vim preserves files and exits.  While
doing that a SIGHUP may arrive and disturb us, thus ignore it. (Scott
Anderson)  Also postpone SIGHUP, SIGQUIT and SIGTERM until it's safe to
handle.  Added handle_signal().

When completing a file name on the command line backslashes are required for
white space.  Was only done for a space, not for a Tab.

When configure could not find a terminal library, compiling continued for a
long time before reporting the problem.  Added a configure check for tgetent()
being found in a library.

When the cursor is on the first char of the last line a ":g/pat/s///" command
may cause the cursor to be displayed below the text.

Win32: Editing a file with non-ASCII characters doesn't work when 'encoding'
is "utf-8".  use _wfullpath() instead of _fullpath(). (Yu-sung Moon)

When recovering the 'fileformat' and 'fileencoding' were taken from the
original file instead of from the swapfile.  When the file didn't exist, was
empty or the option was changed (e.g., with ":e ++fenc=cp123 file") it could
be wrong.  Now store 'fileformat' and 'fileencoding' in the swapfile and use
the values when recovering.

":bufdo g/something/p" overwrites each last printed text line with the file
message for the next buffer.  Temporarily clear 'shortmess' to avoid that.

Win32: Cannot edit a file starting with # with --remote.  Do escape % and #
when building the ":drop" command.

A comment or | just after an expression-backtick argument was not recognized.
E.g. in :e `="foo"`"comment.

"(" does not stop at an empty sentence (single dot and white space) while ")"
does.  Also breaks "das" on that dot.

When doing "yy" with the cursor on a TAB the ruler could be wrong and "k"
moved the cursor to another column.

When 'commentstring' is '"%s' and there is a double quote in the line a double
quote before the fold marker isn't removed in the text displayed for a  closed
fold.

In Visual mode, when 'bin' and 'eol' set, g CTRL-G counted the last line
break, resulting in "selected 202 of 201 bytes".

Motif: fonts were not used for dialog components. (Marcin Dalecki)

Motif: After using a toolbar button the keyboard focus would be on the toolbar
(Lesstif problem). (Marcin Dalecki)

When using "y<C-V>`x" where mark x is in the first column, the last line was
not included.

Not all test scripts work properly on MS-Windows when checked out from CVS.
Use a Vim command to fix all fileformats to dos before executing the tests.

When using ":new" and the file fits in the window, lines could still be above
the window.  Now remove empty lines instead of keeping the relative position.

Cmdline completion didn't work after ":let var1 var<Tab>".

When using ":startinsert" or ":startreplace" when already in Insert mode
(possible when using CTRL-R =), pressing Esc would directly restart Insert
mode. (Peter Winters)

"2daw" didn't work at end of file if the last word is a single character.

Completion for ":next a'<Tab>" put a backslash before single quote, but it was
not removed when editing a file.  Now halve backslashes in save_patterns().
Also fix expanding a file name with the shell that contains "\'".

When doing "1,6d|put" only "fewer lines" was reported.  Now a following "more
lines" overwrites the message.

Configure could not handle "-Dfoo=long\ long" in the TCL config output.

When searching backwards, using a pattern that matches a newline and uses \zs
after that, didn't find a match.  Could also get a hang or end up in the right
column in the wrong line.

When $LANG is "sl" for slovenian, the slovak menu was used, since "slovak"
starts with "sl".

When 'paste' is set in the GUI the Paste toolbar button doesn't work.  Clear
'paste' when starting the GUI.

A message about a wrong viminfo line included the trailing NL.

When 'paste' is set in the GUI the toolbar button doesn't work in Insert mode.
Use ":exe" in menu.vim to avoid duplicating the commands, instead of using a
mapping.

Treat "mlterm" as an xterm-like terminal. (Seiichi Sato)

":z.4" and ":z=4" didn't work Vi compatible.

When sourcing a file, editing it and sourcing it again, it could appear twice
in ":scriptnames" and get a new <SID>, because the inode has changed.

When $SHELL is set but empty the 'shell' option would be empty.  Don't use an
empty $SHELL value.

A command "w! file" in .vimrc or $EXINIT didn't work.  Now it writes an empty
file.

When a CTRL-F command at the end of the file failed, the cursor was still
moved to the start of the line.  Now it remains where it is.

When using ":s" or "&" to repeat the last substitute and "$" was used to put
the cursor in the last column, put the cursor in the last column again.  This
is Vi compatible.

Vim is not fully POSIX compliant but sticks with traditional Vi behavior.
Added a few flags in 'cpoptions' to behave the POSIX way when wanted.  The
$VIM_POSIX environment variable is checked to set the default.

Appending to a register didn't insert a line break like Vi.  Added the '>'
flag to 'cpoptions' for this.

Using "I" in a line with only blanks appended to the line.  This is not Vi
compatible.  Added the 'H' flag in 'cpoptions' for this.

When joining multiple lines the cursor would be at the last joint, but Vi
leaves it at the position where "J" would put it.  Added the 'q' flag in
'cpoptions' for this.

Autoindent didn't work for ":insert" and ":append".

Using ":append" in an empty buffer kept the dummy line.  Now it's deleted to
be Vi compatible.

When reading commands from a file and stdout goes to a terminal, would still
request the xterm version.  Vim can't read it, thus the output went to the
shell and caused trouble there.

When redirecting to a register with an invalid name the redirection would
still be done (after an error message).  Now reset "redir_reg". (Yegappan
Lakshmanan)

It was not possible to use a NL after a backslash in Ex mode.  This is
sometimes used to feed multiple lines to a shell command.

When 'cmdheight' is set to 2 in .vimrc and the GUI uses the number of lines
from the terminal we actually get 3 lines for the cmdline in gvim.

When setting $HOME allocated memory would leak.

Win32: bold characters may sometimes write in another character cell.  Use
unicodepdy[] as for UTF-8. (Taro Muraoka)

":w fname" didn't work for files with 'buftype' set to "nofile".

The method used to locate user commands for completion differed from when they
are executed.  Ambiguous command names were not completed properly.

Incremental search may cause a crash when there is a custom statusline that
indirectly invokes ":normal".

Diff mode failed when $DIFF_OPTIONS was set in the environment.  Unset it
before invoking "diff".

Completion didn't work after ":argdo", ":windo" and ":bufdo".  Also for ":set
&l:opt" and ":set &g:opt". (Peter Winters)

When setting 'ttymouse' to "dec" in an xterm that supports the DEC mouse
locator it doesn't work.  Now switch off the mouse before selecting another
mouse model.

When the CursorHold event is triggered and the commands peek for typed
characters the typeahead buffer may be messed up, e.g., when a mouse-up event
is received.  Avoid invoking the autocommands from the function waiting for a
character, let it put K_CURSORHOLD in the input buffer.

Removed the "COUNT" flag from ":argadd", to avoid ":argadd 1*" to be used like
":1argadd *".  Same for ":argdelete" and ":argedit".

Avoid that $LANG is used for the menus when LC_MESSAGES is "en_US".

Added backslashes before dashes in the vim.1 manual page to make them appear
as real dashes. (Pierre Habouzit)

Where "gq" left the cursor depended on the value of 'formatprg'.  Now "gq"
always leaves the cursor at the last line of the formatted text.

When editing a compressed file, such as "changelog.Debian.gz" file, filetype
detection may try to check the contents of the file while it's still
compressed.  Skip setting 'filetype' for compressed files until they have been
decompressed.  Required for patterns that end in a "*".

Starting with an argument "+cmd" or "-S script" causes the cursor to be moved
to the first line.  That breaks a BufReadPost autocommand that uses g`".
Don't move the cursor if it's somewhere past the first line.

"gg=G" while 'modifiable' is off was uninterruptible.

When 'encoding' is "sjis" inserting CTRL-V u d800 a few times causes a crash.
Don't insert a DBCS character with a NUL second byte.

In Insert mode CTRL-O <Home> didn't move the cursor.  Made "ins_at_eol" global
and reset it in nv_home().

Wildcard expansion failed: ":w /tmp/$$.`echo test`".  Don't put quotes around
spaces inside backticks.

After this sequence of commands: Y V p gv: the wrong line is selected.  Now
let "gv" select the text that was put, since the original text is deleted.
This should be the most useful thing to do.

":sleep 100u" sleeps for 100 seconds, not 100 usec as one might expect.  Give
an error message when the argument isn't recognized.

In gui_mch_draw_string() in gui_w32.c "unibuflen" wasn't static, resulting in
reallocating the buffer every time. (Alexei Alexandrov)

When using a Python "atexit" function it was not invoked when Vim exits.  Now
call Py_Finalize() for that. (Ugo Di Girolamo)
This breaks the thread stuff though, fixed by Ugo.

GTK GUI: using a .vimrc with "set cmdheight=2 lines=43" and ":split" right
after startup, the window layout is messed up. (Michael Schaap)  Added
win_new_shellsize() call in gui_init() to fix the topframe size.

Trick to get ...MOUSE_NM not used when there are vertical splits.  Now pass
column -1 for the left most window and add MOUSE_COLOFF for others.  Limits
mouse column to 10000.

searchpair() may hang when the end pattern has "\zs" at the end.  Check that
we find the same position again and advance one character.

When in diff mode and making a change that causes the "changed" highlighting
to disappear or reappear, it was still highlighted in another window.

When a ":next" command fails because the user selects "Abort" at the ATTENTION
prompt the argument index was advanced anyway.

When "~" is in 'iskeyword' the "gd" doesn't work, it's used for the previous
substitute pattern.  Put "\V" in the pattern to avoid that.

Use of sprintf() sometimes didn't check properly for buffer overflow.  Also
when using smsg().  Included code for snprintf() to avoid having to do size
checks where invoking them

":help \=<Tab>" didn't find "sub-replace-\=".  Wild menu for help tags didn't
show backslashes.  ":he :s\=" didn't work.

When reading an errorfile "~/" in a file name was not expanded.

GTK GUI: When adding a scrollbar (e.g. when using ":vsplit") in a script or
removing it the window size may change.  GTK sends us resize events when we
change the window size ourselves, but they may come at an unexpected moment.
Peek for a character to get any window resize events and fix 'columns' and
'lines' to undo this.

When using the GTK plug mechanism, resizing and focus was not working
properly. (Neil Bird)

After deleting files from the argument list a session file generated with
":mksession" may contain invalid ":next" commands.

When 'shortmess' is empty and 'keymap' set to accents, in Insert mode CTRL-N
may cause the hit-enter prompt.  Typing 'a then didn't result in the accented
character.  Put the character typed at the prompt back in the typeahead buffer
so that mapping is done in the right mode.

setbufvar() and setwinvar() did not give error messages.

It was possible to set a variable with an illegal name, e.g. with setbufvar().
It was possible to define a function with illegal name, e.t. ":func F{-1}()"

CTRL-W F and "gf" didn't use the same method to get the file name.

When reporting a conversion error the line number of the last error could be
given.  Now report the first encountered error.

When using ":e ++enc=name file" and iconv() was used for conversion an error
caused a fall-back to no conversion.  Now replace a character with '?' and
continue.

When opening a new buffer the local value of 'bomb' was not initialized from
the global value.

Win32: When using the "Edit with Vim" entry the file name was limited to about
200 characters.

When using command line completion for ":e *foo" and the file "+foo" exists
the resulting command ":e +foo" doesn't work.  Now insert a backslash: ":e
\+foo".

When the translation of "-- More --" was not 10 characters long the following
message would be in the wrong position.

At the more-prompt the last character in the last line wasn't drawn.

When deleting non-existing text while 'virtualedit' is set the '[ and '] marks
were not set.

Win32: Could not use "**/" in 'path', it had to be "**\".

The search pattern "\n" did not match at the end of the last line.

Searching for a pattern backwards, starting on the NUL at the end of the line
and 'encoding' is "utf-8" would match the pattern just before it incorrectly.
Affected searchpair('/\*', '', '\*/').

For the Find/Replace dialog it was possible that not finding the text resulted
in an error message while redrawing, which cleared the syntax highlighting
while it was being used, resulting in a crash.  Now don't clear syntax
highlighting, disable it with b_syn_error.

Win32: Combining UTF-8 characters were drawn on the previous character.
Could be noticed with a Thai font.

Output of ":function" could leave some of the typed text behind. (Yegappan
Lakshmanan)

When the command line history has only a few lines the command line window
would be opened with these lines above the first window line.

When using a command line window for search strings ":qa" would result in
searching for "qa" instead of quitting all windows.

GUI: When scrolling with the scrollbar and there is a line that doesn't fit
redrawing may fail.  Make sure w_skipcol is valid before redrawing.

Limit the values of 'columns' and 'lines' to avoid an overflow in Rows *
Columns.  Fixed bad effects when running out of memory (command line would be
reversed, ":qa!" resulted in ":!aq").

Motif: "gvim -iconic" opened the window anyway.  (David Harrison)

There is a tiny chance that a symlink gets created between checking for an
existing file and creating a file.  Use the O_NOFOLLOW for open() if it's
available.

In an empty line "ix<CTRL-O>0" moved the cursor to after the line instead of
sticking to the first column.

When using ":wq" and a BufWriteCmd autocmd uses inputsecret() the text was
echoed anyway.  Set terminal to raw mode in getcmdline().

Unix: ":w a;b~c" caused an error in expanding wildcards.

When appending to a file with ":w >>fname" in a buffer without a name, causing
the buffer to use "fname", the modified flag was reset.

When appending to the current file the "not edited" flag would be reset.
":w" would overwrite the file accidentally.

Unix: When filtering text with an external command Vim would still read input,
causing text typed for the command (e.g., a password) to be eaten and echoed.
Don't read input when the terminal is in cooked mode.

The Cygwin version of xxd used CR/LF line separators. (Corinna Vinschen)

Unix: When filtering text through a shell command some resulting text may be
dropped.  Now after detecting that the child has exited try reading some more
of its output.

When inside input(), using "CTRL-R =" and the expression throws an exception
the command line was not abandoned but it wasn't used either.  Now abandon
typing the command line.

'delcombine' was also used in Visual and Select mode and for commands like
"cl".  That was illogical and has been disabled.

When recording while a CursorHold autocommand was defined special keys would
appear in the register.  Now the CursorHold event is not triggered while
recording.

Unix: the src/configure script used ${srcdir-.}, not all shells understand
that.  Use ${srcdir:-.} instead.

When editing file "a" which is a symlink to file "b" that doesn't exist,
writing file "a" to create "b" and then ":split b" resulted in two buffers on
the same file with two different swapfile names.  Now set the inode in the
buffer when creating a new file.

When 'esckeys' is not set don't send the xterm code to request the version
string, because it may cause trouble in Insert mode.

When evaluating an expression for CTRL-R = on the command line it was possible
to call a function that opens a new window, resulting in errors for
incremental search, and many other nasty things were possible.  Now use the
|textlock| to disallow changing the buffer or jumping to another window
to protect from unexpected behavior.  Same for CTRL-\ e.

"d(" deleted the character under the cursor, while the documentation specified
an exclusive motion.  Vi also doesn't delete the character under the cursor.

Shift-Insert in Insert mode could put the cursor before the last character
when it just fits in the window.  In coladvance() don't stop at the window
edge when filling with spaces and when in Insert mode.  In mswin.vim avoid
getting a beep from the "l" command.

Win32 GUI: When Alt-F4 is used to close the window and Cancel is selected in
the dialog then Vim would insert <M-F4> in the text.  Now it's ignored.

When ":silent! {cmd}" caused the swap file dialog, which isn't displayed,
there would still be a hit-enter prompt.

Requesting the termresponse (|t_RV|) early may cause problems with "-c"
arguments that invoke an external command or even "-c quit".  Postpone it
until after executing "-c" arguments.

When typing in Insert mode so that a new line is started, using CTRL-G u to
break undo and start a new change, then joining the lines with <BS> caused
undo info to be missing.  Now reset the insertion start point.

Syntax HL: When a region start match has a matchgroup and an offset that
happens to be after the end of the line then it continued in the next line and
stopped at the region end match, making the region continue after that.
Now check for the column being past the end of the line in syn_add_end_off().

When changing a file, setting 'swapfile' off and then on again, making another
change and killing Vim, then some blocks may be missing from the swapfile.
When 'swapfile' is switched back on mark all blocks in the swapfile as dirty.
Added mf_set_dirty().

Expanding wildcards in a command like ":e aap;<>!" didn't work.  Put
backslashes before characters that are special to the shell. (Adri Verhoef)

A CursorHold autocommand would cause a message to be cleared.  Don't show the
special key for the event for 'showcmd'.

When expanding a file name for a shell command, as in "!cmd foo<Tab>" or ":r
!cmd foo<Tab>" also escape characters that are special for the shell:
"!;&()<>".

When the name of the buffer was set by a ":r fname" command |cpo-f| no
autocommands were triggered to notify about the change in the buffer list.

In the quickfix buffer 'bufhidden' was set to "delete", which caused closing
the quickfix window to leave an unlisted "No Name" buffer behind every time.

Win32: when using two screens of different size, setting 'lines' to a large
value didn't fill the whole screen. (SungHyun Nam)

Win32 installer: The generated _vimrc contained an absolute path to diff.exe.
After upgrading it becomes invalid.  Now use $VIMRUNTIME instead.

The command line was cleared too often when 'showmode' was set and ":silent
normal vy" was used.  Don't clear the command line unless the mode was
actually displayed.  Added the "mode_displayed" variable.

The "load session" toolbar item could not handle a space or other special
characters in v:this_session.

":set sta ts=8 sw=4 sts=2" deleted 4 spaces halfway a line instead of 2.

In a multibyte file the foldmarker could be recognized in the trail byte.
(Taro Muraoka)

Pasting with CTRL-V and menu didn't work properly when some commands are
mapped.  Use ":normal!" instead of ":normal". (Tony Apuzzo)

Crashed when expanding a file name argument in backticks.

In some situations the menu and scrollbar didn't work, when the value contains
a CSI byte. (Yukihiro Nakadaira)

GTK GUI: When drawing the balloon focus changes and we might get a key release
event that removed the balloon again.  Ignore the key release event.

'titleold' was included in ":mkexrc" and ":mksession" files.

":set background&" didn't use the same logic as was used when starting up.

When "umask" is set such that nothing is writable then the viminfo file would
be written without write permission. (Julian Bridle)

Motif: In diff mode dragging one scrollbar didn't update the scrollbar of the
other diff'ed window.

When editing in an xterm with a different number of colors than expected the
screen would be cleared and redrawn, causing the message about the edited file
to be cleared.  Now set "keep_msg" to redraw the last message.

For a color terminal: When the Normal HL uses bold, possibly to make the color
lighter, and another HL group specifies a color it might become light as well.
Now reset bold if a HL group doesn't specify bold itself.

When using 256 color xterm the color 255 would show up as color 0.  Use a
short instead of a char to store the color number.

ml_get errors when searching for "\n\zs" in an empty file.

When selecting a block and using "$" to select until the end of every line and
not highlighting the character under the cursor the first character of the
block could be unhighlighted.

When counting words for the Visual block area and using "$" to select until
the end of every line only up to the length of the last line was counted.

"dip" in trailing empty lines left one empty line behind.

The script ID was only remembered globally for each option. When a buffer- or
window-local option was set the same "last set" location was changed for all
buffers and windows.  Now remember the script ID for each local option
separately.

GUI: The "Replace All" button didn't handle backslashes in the replacement in
the same way as "Replace".  Escape backslashes so that they are taken
literally.

When using Select mode from Insert mode and typing a key, causing lines to be
deleted and a message displayed, delayed the effect of inserting the key.
Now overwrite the message without delay.

When 'whichwrap' includes "l" then "dl" and "yl" on a single letter line
worked differently.  Now recognize all operators when using "l" at the end of
a line.

GTK GUI: when the font selector returned a font name with a comma in it then
it would be handled like two font names.  Now put a backslash before the
comma.

MS-DOS, Win32: When 'encoding' defaults to "latin1" then the value for
'iskeyword' was still for CPxxx.  And when 'nocompatible' was set 'isprint'
would also be the wrong value.

When a command was defined not to take arguments and no '|' no warning message
would be given for using a '|'.  Also with ":loadkeymap".

Motif: When using a fontset and 'encoding' is "utf-8" and sizeof(wchar_t) !=
sizeof(XChar2b) then display was wrong. (Yukihiro Nakadaira)

":all" always set the current window to the first window, even when it
contains a buffer that is not in the argument list (can't be closed because it
is modified).  Now go to the window that has the first item of the argument
list.

GUI: To avoid left-over pixels from bold text all characters after a character
with special attributes were redrawn.  Now only do this for characters that
actually are bold.  Speeds up displaying considerably.

When only highlighting changes and the text is scrolled at the same time
everything is redrawn instead of using a scroll and updating the changed text.
E.g., when using ":match" to highlight a paren that the cursor landed on.
Added SOME_VALID: Redraw the whole window but also try to scroll to minimize
redrawing.

Win32: When using Korean IME making it active didn't work properly. (Moon,
Yu-sung, 2005 March 21)

Ruby interface: when inserting/deleting lines display wasn't updated. (Ryan
Paul)

--- fixes since Vim 7.0b ---

Getting the GCC version in configure didn't work with Solaris sed.  First
strip any "darwin." and then get the version number.

The "autoload" directory was missing from the self-installing executable for
MS-Windows.

The MS-Windows install program would find "vimtutor.bat" in the install
directory.  After changing to "c:" also change to "\" to avoid looking in the
install directory.

To make the 16 bit DOS version compile exclude not used highlight
initializations and build a tiny instead of small version.

finddir() and findfile() accept a negative count and return a List then.

The Python indent file contained a few debugging statements, removed.

Expanding {} for a function name, resulting in a name starting with "s:" was
not handled correctly.

Spelling: renamed COMPOUNDMAX to COMPOUNDWORDMAX.  Added several items to be
able to handle the new Hungarian dictionary.

Mac: Default to building for the current platform only, that is much faster
than building a universal binary.  Also, using Perl/Python/etc. only works for
the current platform.

The time on undo messages disappeared for someone.  Using %T for strftime()
apparently doesn't work everywhere.  Use %H:%M:%S instead.

Typing BS at the "z=" prompt removed the prompt.

--- fixes and changes since Vim 7.0c ---

When jumping to another tab page the Vim window size was always set, even when
nothing in the layout changed.

Win32 GUI tab pages line wasn't always enabled.  Do a proper check for the
compiler version.

Win32: When switching between tab pages the Vim window was moved when part of
it was outside of the screen.  Now only do that in the direction of a size
change.

Win32: added menu to GUI tab pages line. (Yegappan Lakshmanan)

Mac: Added document icons. (Benji Fisher)

Insert mode completion: Using Enter to accept the current match causes
confusion.  Use CTRL-Y instead.  Also, use CTRL-E to go back to the typed
text.

GUI: When there are left and right scrollbars, ":tabedit" kept them instead of
using the one that isn't needed.

Using "gP" to replace al the text could leave the cursor below the last line,
causing ml_get errors.

When 'cursorline' is set don't use the highlighting when Visual mode is
active, otherwise it's difficult to see the selected area.

The matchparen plugin restricts the search to 100 lines, to avoid a long delay
when there are closed folds.

Sometimes using CTRL-X s to list spelling suggestions used text from another
line.

Win32: Set the default for 'isprint' back to the wrong default "@,~-255",
because many people use Windows-1252 while 'encoding' is "latin1".

GTK: Added a workaround for gvim crashing when used over an untrusted ssh
link, caused by GTK doing something nasty. (Ed Catmur)

Win32: The font used for the tab page labels is too big.  Use the system menu
font. (George Reilly)

Win32: Adjusting the window position and size to keep it on the screen didn't
work properly when the taskbar is on the left or top of the screen.

The installman.sh and installml.sh scripts use ${10}, that didn't work with
old shells.  And use "test -f" instead of "test -e".

Win32: When 'encoding' was set in the vimrc then a directory argument for diff
mode didn't work.

GUI: at the inputlist() prompt the cursorshape was adjusted as if the windows
were still at their old position.

The parenmatch plugin didn't remember the highlighting per window.

Using ":bd" for a buffer that's the current window in another tab page caused
a crash.

For a new tab page the 'scroll' option wasn't set to a good default.

Using an end offset for a search "/pat/e" didn't work properly for multibyte
text. (Yukihiro Nakadaira)

":s/\n/,/" doubled the text when used on the last line.

When "search" is in 'foldopen' "[s" and "]s" now open folds.

When using a numbered function "dict" can be omitted, but "self" didn't work
then.  Always add FC_DICT to the function flags when it's part of a
dictionary.

When "--remote-tab" executes locally it left an empty tab page.

"gvim -u NONE", ":set cursorcolumn", "C" in the second line didn't update
text.  Do update further lines even though the "$" is displayed.

VMS: Support GTK better, also enable +clientserver. (Zoltan Arpadffy)

When highlighting of statusline or tabline is changed there was no redraw to
show the effect.

Mac: Added "CFBundleIdentifier" to infplist.xml.

Added tabpage-local variables t:var.

Win32: Added double-click in tab pages line creates new tab. (Yegappan
Lakshmanan)

Motif: Added GUI tab pages line. (Yegappan Lakshmanan)

Fixed crash when 'lines' was set to 1000 in a modeline.

When init_spellfile() finds a writable directory in 'runtimepath' but it
doesn't contain a "spell" directory, create one.

Win32: executable() also finds "xxd" in the directory where Vim was started,
but "!xxd" doesn't work.  Append the Vim starting directory to $PATH.

The tab page labels are shortened, directory names are reduced to a single
letter by default.  Added the pathshorten() function to allow a user to do the
same.

":saveas" now resets 'readonly' if the file was successfully written.

Set $MYVIMRC file to the first found .vimrc file.
Set $MYGVIMRC file to the first found .gvimrc file.
Added menu item "Startup Settings" that edits the $MYVIMRC file

Added matcharg().

Error message E745 appeared twice.  Renamed one to E786.

Fixed crash when using "au BufRead * Sexplore" and doing ":help".  Was wiping
out a buffer that's still in a window.

":hardcopy" resulted in an error message when 'encoding' is "utf-8" and
'printencoding' is empty.  Now it assumes latin1. (Mike Williams)

The check for the toolbar feature for Motif, depending on certain included
files, wasn't detailed enough, causing building to fail in gui_xmebw.c.

Using CTRL-E in Insert mode completion after CTRL-P inserted the first match
instead of the original text.

When displaying a UTF-8 character with a zero lower byte Vim might think the
previous character is double-wide.

The "nbsp" item of 'listchars' didn't work when 'encoding' was utf-8.

Motif: when Xm/xpm.h is missing gui_xmebw.c would not compile.
HAVE_XM_UNHIGHLIGHTT_H was missing a T.

Mac: Moved the .icns files into src/os_mac_rsrc, so that they can all be
copied at once.  Adjusted the Info.plist file for three icons.

When Visual mode is active while switching to another tabpage could get ml_get
errors.

When 'list' is set, 'nowrap' the $ in the first column caused 'cursorcolumn'
to move to the right.

When a line wraps, 'cursorcolumn' was never displayed past the end of the
line.
