  Message Control
     --messages, --no-messages
            Enable/disable all info/warning/error messages. Default enabled.
     --exit-bitmask, --no-exit-bitmask
            Enable/disable exit status bitmask for messages. Default disabled.
            Bitmask values are
                Info    1
                Warning 2
                Error   4

Copyright (c) 2011-2024 Paul Marquess. All rights reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.
EOM

    if (@_)
    {
        warn "$_\n"
            for @_  ;
        warn "\n";

        die $message ;
    }

    print $message ;
    exit 0;

}

1;

__END__

=head1 NAME

zipdetails - display the internal structure of zip files

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    zipdetails [options] zipfile.zip

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This program creates a detailed report on the internal structure of zip
files. For each item of metadata within a zip file the program will output

=over 5

=item the offset into the zip file where the item is located.

=item a textual representation for the item.

=item an optional hex dump of the item.

=back


The program assumes a prior understanding of the internal structure of Zip
files. You should have a copy of the zip file definition,
L<APPNOTE.TXT|https://pkware.cachefly.net/webdocs/casestudies/APPNOTE.TXT>,
at hand to help understand the output from this program.

=head2 Default Behaviour

By default the program expects to be given a well-formed zip file.  It will
navigate the zip file by first parsing the zip C<Central Directory> at the end
of the file.  If the C<Central Directory> is found, it will then walk
sequentally through the zip records starting at the beginning of the file.
See L<Advanced Analysis> for other processing options.

If the program finds any structural or portability issues with the zip file
it will print a message at the point it finds the issue and/or in a summary
at the end of the output report. Whilst the set of issues that can be
detected it exhaustive, don't assume that this program can find I<all> the
possible issues in a zip file - there are likely edge conditions that need
to be addressed.

If you have suggestions for use-cases where this could be enhanced please
consider creating an enhancement request (see L<"SUPPORT">).

=head3 Date & Time fields

Date/time fields found in zip files are displayed in local time. Use the
C<--utc> option to display these fields in Coordinated Universal Time (UTC).

=head3 Filenames & Comments

Filenames and comments are decoded/encoded using the default system
encoding of the host running C<zipdetails>. When the sytem encoding cannot
be determined C<cp437> will be used.

The exceptions are

=over 5

=item *

when the C<Language Encoding Flag> is set in the zip file, the
filename/comment fields are assumed to be encoded in UTF-8.

=item *

the definition for the metadata field implies UTF-8 charset encoding

=back

See L<"Filename Encoding Issues"> and L<Filename & Comment Encoding
Options> for ways to control the encoding of filename/comment fields.

=head2 OPTIONS

=head3 General Options

=over 5

=item C<-h>, C<--help>

Display help

=item C<--redact>

Obscure filenames and payload data in the output. Handy for the use case
where the zip files contains sensitive data that cannot be shared.

=item C<--scan>

Pessimistically scan the zip file loking for possible zip records. Can be
error-prone. For very large zip files this option is slow. Consider using
the C<--walk> option first. See L<"Advanced Analysis Options">

=item C<--utc>

By default, date/time fields are displayed in local time. Use this option to
display them in in Coordinated Universal Time (UTC).

=item C<-v>

Enable Verbose mode. See L<"Verbose Output">.

=item C<--version>

Display version number of the program and exit.

=item C<--walk>

Optimistically walk the zip file looking for possible zip records.
See L<"Advanced Analysis Options">

=back

=head3 Filename & Comment Encoding Options

See L<"Filename Encoding Issues">

=over 5

=item C<--encoding name>

Use encoding "name" when reading filenames/comments from the zip file.

When this option is not specified the default the system encoding is used.

=item C< --no-encoding>

Disable all filename & comment encoding/decoding. Filenames/comments are
processed as byte streams.

This option is not enabled by default.

=item C<--output-encoding name>

Use encoding "name" when writing filename/comments to the display.  By
default the system encoding will be used.

=item C<--language-encoding>, C<--no-language-encoding>

Modern zip files set a metadata entry in zip files, called the "Language
encoding flag", when they write filenames/comments encoded in UTF-8.

Occasionally some applications set the C<Language Encoding Flag> but write
data that is not UTF-8 in the filename/comment fields of the zip file. This
will usually result in garbled text being output for the
filenames/comments.

To deal with this use-case, set the C<--no-language-encoding> option and,
if needed, set the C<--encoding name> option to encoding actually used.

Default is C<--language-encoding>.

=item C<--debug-encoding>

Display extra debugging info when a filename/comment encoding has changed.

=back

=head3 Message Control Options

=over 5

=item C<--messages>, C<--no-messages>

Enable/disable the output of all info/warning/error messages.

Disabling messages means that no checks are carried out to check that the
zip file is well-formed.

Default is enabled.

=item C<--exit-bitmask>, C<--no-exit-bitmask>

Enable/disable exit status bitmask for messages. Default disabled.
Bitmask values are: 1 for info, 2 for warning and 4 for error.

=back


=head2 Default Output

By default C<zipdetails> will output each metadata field from the zip file
in three columns.

=over 5

=item 1

The offset, in hex, to the start of the field relative to the beginning of
the file.

=item 2

The name of the field.

=item 3

Detailed information about the contents of the field. The format depends on
the type of data:

=over 5

=item * Numeric Values

If the field contains an 8-bit, 16-bit, 32-bit or 64-bit numeric value, it
will be displayed in both hex and decimal -- for example "C<002A (42)>".

Note that Zip files store most numeric values in I<little-endian> encoding
(there area few rare instances where I<big-endian> is used). The value read
from the zip file will have the I<endian> encoding removed before being
displayed.

Next, is an optional description of what the numeric value means.

=item * String

If the field corresponds to a printable string, it will be output enclosed
in single quotes.

=item * Binary Data

The term I<Binary Data> is just a catch-all for all other metadata in the
zip file. This data is displayed as a series of ascii-hex byte values in
the same order they are stored in the zip file.

=back

=back

For example, assuming you have a zip file, C<test,zip>, with one entry

    $ unzip -l  test.zip
    Archive:  test.zip
    Length      Date    Time    Name
    ---------  ---------- -----   ----
        446  2023-03-22 20:03   lorem.txt
    ---------                     -------
        446                     1 file

Running C<zipdetails> will gives this output

    $ zipdetails test.zip

    0000 LOCAL HEADER #1       04034B50 (67324752)
    0004 Extract Zip Spec      14 (20) '2.0'
    0005 Extract OS            00 (0) 'MS-DOS'
    0006 General Purpose Flag  0000 (0)
         [Bits 1-2]            0 'Normal Compression'
    0008 Compression Method    0008 (8) 'Deflated'
    000A Modification Time     5676A072 (1450614898) 'Wed Mar 22 20:03:36 2023'
    000E CRC                   F90EE7FF (4178503679)
    0012 Compressed Size       0000010E (270)
    0016 Uncompressed Size     000001BE (446)
    001A Filename Length       0009 (9)
    001C Extra Length          0000 (0)
    001E Filename              'lorem.txt'
    0027 PAYLOAD

    0135 CENTRAL HEADER #1     02014B50 (33639248)
    0139 Created Zip Spec      1E (30) '3.0'
    013A Created OS            03 (3) 'Unix'
    013B Extract Zip Spec      14 (20) '2.0'
    013C Extract OS            00 (0) 'MS-DOS'
    013D General Purpose Flag  0000 (0)
         [Bits 1-2]            0 'Normal Compression'
    013F Compression Method    0008 (8) 'Deflated'
    0141 Modification Time     5676A072 (1450614898) 'Wed Mar 22 20:03:36 2023'
    0145 CRC                   F90EE7FF (4178503679)
    0149 Compressed Size       0000010E (270)
    014D Uncompressed Size     000001BE (446)
    0151 Filename Length       0009 (9)
    0153 Extra Length          0000 (0)
    0155 Comment Length        0000 (0)
    0157 Disk Start            0000 (0)
    0159 Int File Attributes   0001 (1)
         [Bit 0]               1 'Text Data'
    015B Ext File Attributes   81ED0000 (2179792896)
         [Bits 16-24]          01ED (493) 'Unix attrib: rwxr-xr-x'
         [Bits 28-31]          08 (8) 'Regular File'
    015F Local Header Offset   00000000 (0)
    0163 Filename              'lorem.txt'

    016C END CENTRAL HEADER    06054B50 (101010256)
    0170 Number of this disk   0000 (0)
    0172 Central Dir Disk no   0000 (0)
    0174 Entries in this disk  0001 (1)
    0176 Total Entries         0001 (1)
    0178 Size of Central Dir   00000037 (55)
    017C Offset to Central Dir 00000135 (309)
    0180 Comment Length        0000 (0)
    #
    # Done


=head2 Verbose Output

If the C<-v> option is present, the metadata output is split into the
following columns:

=over 5

=item 1

The offset, in hex, to the start of the field relative to the beginning of
the file.

=item 2

The offset, in hex, to the end of the field relative to the beginning of
the file.

=item 3

The length, in hex, of the field.

=item 4

A hex dump of the bytes in field in the order they are stored in the zip file.

=item 5

A textual description of the field.

=item 6

Information about the contents of the field. See the description in the
L<Default Output> for more details.

=back

Here is the same zip file, C<test.zip>, dumped using the C<zipdetails>
C<-v> option:

    $ zipdetails -v test.zip

    0000 0003 0004 50 4B 03 04 LOCAL HEADER #1       04034B50 (67324752)
    0004 0004 0001 14          Extract Zip Spec      14 (20) '2.0'
    0005 0005 0001 00          Extract OS            00 (0) 'MS-DOS'
    0006 0007 0002 00 00       General Purpose Flag  0000 (0)
                               [Bits 1-2]            0 'Normal Compression'
    0008 0009 0002 08 00       Compression Method    0008 (8) 'Deflated'
    000A 000D 0004 72 A0 76 56 Modification Time     5676A072 (1450614898) 'Wed Mar 22 20:03:36 2023'
    000E 0011 0004 FF E7 0E F9 CRC                   F90EE7FF (4178503679)
    0012 0015 0004 0E 01 00 00 Compressed Size       0000010E (270)
    0016 0019 0004 BE 01 00 00 Uncompressed Size     000001BE (446)
    001A 001B 0002 09 00       Filename Length       0009 (9)
    001C 001D 0002 00 00       Extra Length          0000 (0)
    001E 0026 0009 6C 6F 72 65 Filename              'lorem.txt'
                   6D 2E 74 78
                   74
    0027 0134 010E ...         PAYLOAD

    0135 0138 0004 50 4B 01 02 CENTRAL HEADER #1     02014B50 (33639248)
    0139 0139 0001 1E          Created Zip Spec      1E (30) '3.0'
    013A 013A 0001 03          Created OS            03 (3) 'Unix'
    013B 013B 0001 14          Extract Zip Spec      14 (20) '2.0'
    013C 013C 0001 00          Extract OS            00 (0) 'MS-DOS'
    013D 013E 0002 00 00       General Purpose Flag  0000 (0)
                               [Bits 1-2]            0 'Normal Compression'
    013F 0140 0002 08 00       Compression Method    0008 (8) 'Deflated'
    0141 0144 0004 72 A0 76 56 Modification Time     5676A072 (1450614898) 'Wed Mar 22 20:03:36 2023'
    0145 0148 0004 FF E7 0E F9 CRC                   F90EE7FF (4178503679)
    0149 014C 0004 0E 01 00 00 Compressed Size       0000010E (270)
    014D 0150 0004 BE 01 00 00 Uncompressed Size     000001BE (446)
    0151 0152 0002 09 00       Filename Length       0009 (9)
    0153 0154 0002 00 00       Extra Length          0000 (0)
    0155 0156 0002 00 00       Comment Length        0000 (0)
    0157 0158 0002 00 00       Disk Start            0000 (0)
    0159 015A 0002 01 00       Int File Attributes   0001 (1)
                               [Bit 0]               1 'Text Data'
    015B 015E 0004 00 00 ED 81 Ext File Attributes   81ED0000 (2179792896)
                               [Bits 16-24]          01ED (493) 'Unix attrib: rwxr-xr-x'
                               [Bits 28-31]          08 (8) 'Regular File'
    015F 0162 0004 00 00 00 00 Local Header Offset   00000000 (0)
    0163 016B 0009 6C 6F 72 65 Filename              'lorem.txt'
                   6D 2E 74 78
                   74

    016C 016F 0004 50 4B 05 06 END CENTRAL HEADER    06054B50 (101010256)
    0170 0171 0002 00 00       Number of this disk   0000 (0)
    0172 0173 0002 00 00       Central Dir Disk no   0000 (0)
    0174 0175 0002 01 00       Entries in this disk  0001 (1)
    0176 0177 0002 01 00       Total Entries         0001 (1)
    0178 017B 0004 37 00 00 00 Size of Central Dir   00000037 (55)
    017C 017F 0004 35 01 00 00 Offset to Central Dir 00000135 (309)
    0180 0181 0002 00 00       Comment Length        0000 (0)
    #
    # Done

=head2 Advanced Analysis

If you have a corrupt or non-standard zip file, particulatly one where the
C<Central Directory> metadata at the end of the file is absent/incomplete, you
can use either the C<--walk> option or the C<--scan> option to search for
any zip metadata that is still present in the file.

When either of these options is enabled, this program will bypass the
initial step of reading the C<Central Directory> at the end of the file and
simply scan the zip file sequentially from the start of the file looking
for zip metedata records. Although this can be error prone, for the most
part it will find any zip file metadata that is still present in the file.

The difference between the two options is how aggressive the sequential
scan is: C<--walk> is optimistic, while C<--scan> is pessimistic.

To understand the difference in more detail you need to know a bit about
how zip file metadata is structured. Under the hood, a zip file uses a
series of 4-byte signatures to flag the start of a each of the metadata
records it uses. When the C<--walk> or the C<--scan> option is enabled both
work identically by scanning the file from the beginning looking for any
the of these valid 4-byte metadata signatures. When a 4-byte signature is
found both options will blindly assume that it has found a vald metadata
record and display it.

=head3 C<--walk>

The C<--walk> option optimistically assumes that it has found a real zip
metatada record and so starts the scan for the next record directly after
the record it has just output.

=head3 C<--scan>

The C<--scan> option is pessimistic and assumes the 4-byte signature
sequence may have been a false-positive, so before starting the scan for
the next resord, it will rewind to the location in the file directly after
the 4-byte sequecce it just processed. This means it will rescan data that
has already been processed.  For very lage zip files the C<--scan> option
can be really realy slow, so trying the C<--walk> option first.

B<Important Note>: If the zip file being processed contains one or more
nested zip files, and the outer zip file uses the C<STORE> compression
method, the C<--scan> option will display the zip metadata for both the
outer & inner zip files.

=head2 Filename Encoding Issues

Sometimes when displaying the contents of a zip file the filenames (or
comments) appear to be garbled. This section walks through the reasons and
mitigations that can be applied to work around these issues.

=head3 Background

When zip files were first created in the 1980's, there was no Unicode or
UTF-8. Issues around character set encoding interoperability were not a
major concern.

Initially, the only official encoding supported in zip files was IBM Code
Page 437 (AKA C<CP437>). As time went on users in locales where C<CP437>
wasn't appropriate stored filenames in the encoding native to their locale.
If you were running a system that matched the locale of the zip file, all
was well. If not, you had to post-process the filenames after unzipping the
zip file.

Fast forward to the introduction of Unicode and UTF-8 encoding. The
approach now used by all major zip implementations is to set the C<Language
encoding flag> (also known as C<EFS>) in the zip file metadata to signal
that a filename/comment is encoded in UTF-8.

To ensure maximum interoperability when sharing zip files store 7-bit
filenames as-is in the zip file. For anything else the C<EFS> bit needs to
be set and the filename is encoded in UTF-8. Although this rule is kept to
for the most part, there are exceptions out in the wild.

=head3 Dealing with Encoding Errors

The most common filename encoding issue is where the C<EFS> bit is not set and
the filename is stored in a character set that doesnt't match the system
encoding. This mostly impacts legacy zip files that predate the
introduction of Unicode.

To deal with this issue you first need to know what encoding was used in
the zip file. For example, if the filename is encoded in C<ISO-8859-1> you
can display the filenames using the C<--encoding> option

    zipdetails --encoding ISO-8859-1 myfile.zip

A less common variation of this is where the C<EFS> bit is set, signalling
that the filename will be encoded in UTF-8, but the filename is not encoded
in UTF-8. To deal with this scenarion, use the C<--no-language-encoding>
option along with the C<--encoding> option.


=head1 LIMITATIONS

The following zip file features are not supported by this program:

=over 5

=item *

Multi-part/Split/Spanned Zip Archives.

This program cannot give an overall report on the combined parts of a
multi-part zip file.

The best you can do is run with either the C<--scan> or C<--walk> options
against individual parts. Some will contains zipfile metadata which will be
detected and some will only contain compressed payload data.


=item *

Encrypted Central Directory

When pkzip I<Strong Encryption> is enabled in a zip file this program can
still parse most of the metadata in the zip file. The exception is when the
C<Central Directory> of a zip file is also encrypted. This program cannot
parse any metadata from an encrypted C<Central Directory>.

=item *

Corrupt Zip files

When C<zipdetails> encounters a corrupt zip file, it will do one or more of
the following

=over 5

=item *

Display details of the corruption and carry on

=item *

Display details of the corruption and terminate

=item *

Terminate with a generic message

=back

Which of the above is output is dependent in the severity of the
corruption.

=back

=head1 TODO

=head2 JSON/YML Output

Output some of the zip file metadata as a JSON or YML document.

=head2 Corrupt Zip files

Although the detection and reporting of most of the common corruption use-cases is
present in C<zipdetails>, there are likely to be other edge cases that need
to be supported.

If you have a corrupt Zip file that isn't being processed properly, please
report it (see  L<"SUPPORT">).

=head1 SUPPORT

General feedback/questions/bug reports should be sent to
L<https://github.com/pmqs/zipdetails/issues>.

=head1 SEE ALSO


The primary reference for Zip files is
L<APPNOTE.TXT|https://pkware.cachefly.net/webdocs/casestudies/APPNOTE.TXT>.

An alternative reference is the Info-Zip appnote. This is available from
L<ftp://ftp.info-zip.org/pub/infozip/doc/>

For details of WinZip AES encryption see L<AES Encryption Information:
Encryption Specification AE-1 and
AE-2|https://www.winzip.com/en/support/aes-encryption/>.

The C<zipinfo> program that comes with the info-zip distribution
(L<http://www.info-zip.org/>) can also display details of the structure of a zip
file.


=head1 AUTHOR

Paul Marquess F<pmqs@cpan.org>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2011-2024 Paul Marquess. All rights reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as Perl itself.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        usr/local/lib/                                                                                      0000755 0000000 0000000 00000000000 14714567415 011733  5                                                                                                    ustar 00                                                                0000000 0000000                                                                                                                                                                        usr/local/lib/perl5/                                                                                0000755 0000000 0000000 00000000000 14714567415 012762  5                                                                                                    ustar 00                                                                0000000 0000000                                                                                                                                                                        usr/local/lib/perl5/5.40.0/                                                                         0000755 0000000 0000000 00000000000 14714567415 013506  5                                                                                                    ustar 00                                                                0000000 0000000                                                                                                                                                                        usr/local/lib/perl5/5.40.0/AnyDBM_File.pm                                                           0000444 0000000 0000000 00000005072 14714567415 016057  0                                                                                                    ustar 00                                                                0000000 0000000                                                                                                                                                                        package AnyDBM_File;
use warnings;
use strict;

use 5.006_001;
our $VERSION = '1.01';
our @ISA = qw(NDBM_File DB_File GDBM_File SDBM_File ODBM_File) unless @ISA;

my $mod;
for $mod (@ISA) {
    if (eval "require $mod") {
	@ISA = ($mod);	# if we leave @ISA alone, warnings abound
	return 1;
    }
}

die "No DBM package was successfully found or installed";

__END__

=head1 NAME

AnyDBM_File - provide framework for multiple DBMs

NDBM_File, DB_File, GDBM_File, SDBM_File, ODBM_File - various DBM implementations

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use AnyDBM_File;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module is a "pure virtual base class"--it has nothing of its own.
It's just there to inherit from one of the various DBM packages.  It
prefers ndbm for compatibility reasons with Perl 4, then Berkeley DB (See
L<DB_File>), GDBM, SDBM (which is always there--it comes with Perl), and
finally ODBM.   This way old programs that used to use NDBM via dbmopen()
can still do so, but new ones can reorder @ISA:

    BEGIN { @AnyDBM_File::ISA = qw(DB_File GDBM_File NDBM_File) }
    use AnyDBM_File;

Having multiple DBM implementations makes it trivial to copy database formats:

    use Fcntl; use NDBM_File; use DB_File;
    tie %newhash,  'DB_File', $new_filename, O_CREAT|O_RDWR;
    tie %oldhash,  'NDBM_File', $old_filename, 1, 0;
    %newhash = %oldhash;

=head2 DBM Comparisons

Here's a partial table of features the different packages offer:

                         odbm    ndbm    sdbm    gdbm    bsd-db
			 ----	 ----    ----    ----    ------
 Linkage comes w/ perl   yes     yes     yes     yes     yes
 Src comes w/ perl       no      no      yes     no      no
 Comes w/ many unix os   yes     yes[0]  no      no      no
 Builds ok on !unix      ?       ?       yes     yes     ?
 Code Size               ?       ?       small   big     big
 Database Size           ?       ?       small   big?    ok[1]
 Speed                   ?       ?       slow    ok      fast
 FTPable                 no      no      yes     yes     yes
 Easy to build          N/A     N/A      yes     yes     ok[2]
 Size limits             1k      4k      1k[3]   none    none
 Byte-order independent  no      no      no      no      yes
 Licensing restrictions  ?       ?       no      yes     no


=over 4

=item [0] 

on mixed universe machines, may be in the bsd compat library,
which is often shunned.

=item [1] 

Can be trimmed if you compile for one access method.

=item [2] 

See L<DB_File>. 
Requires symbolic links.  

=item [3] 

By default, but can be redefined.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

dbm(3), ndbm(3), DB_File(3), L<perldbmfilter>

=cut
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      usr/local/lib/perl5/5.40.0/App/                                                                     0000755 0000000 0000000 00000000000 14714567415 014226  5                                                                                                    ustar 00                                                                0000000 0000000                                                                                                                                                                        usr/local/lib/perl5/5.40.0/App/Cpan.pm                                                              0000444 0000000 0000000 00000117273 14714567415 015456  0                                                                                                    ustar 00                                                                0000000 0000000                                                                                                                                                                        package App::Cpan;

use strict;
use warnings;
use vars qw($VERSION);

use if $] < 5.008 => 'IO::Scalar';

$VERSION = '1.678';

=head1 NAME

App::Cpan - easily interact with CPAN from the command line

=head1 SYNOPSIS

	# with arguments and no switches, installs specified modules
	cpan module_name [ module_name ... ]

	# with switches, installs modules with extra behavior
	cpan [-cfFimtTw] module_name [ module_name ... ]

	# use local::lib
	cpan -I module_name [ module_name ... ]

	# one time mirror override for faster mirrors
	cpan -p ...

	# with just the dot, install from the distribution in the
	# current directory
	cpan .

	# without arguments, starts CPAN.pm shell
	cpan

	# without arguments, but some switches
	cpan [-ahpruvACDLOPX]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This script provides a command interface (not a shell) to CPAN. At the
moment it uses CPAN.pm to do the work, but it is not a one-shot command
runner for CPAN.pm.

=head2 Options

=over 4

=item -a

Creates a CPAN.pm autobundle with CPAN::Shell->autobundle.

=item -A module [ module ... ]

Shows the primary maintainers for the specified modules.

=item -c module

Runs a `make clean` in the specified module's directories.

=item -C module [ module ... ]

Show the F<Changes> files for the specified modules

=item -D module [ module ... ]

Show the module details. This prints one line for each out-of-date module
(meaning, modules locally installed but have newer versions on CPAN).
Each line has three columns: module name, local version, and CPAN
version.

=item -f

Force the specified action, when it normally would have failed. Use this
to install a module even if its tests fail. When you use this option,
-i is not optional for installing a module when you need to force it:

	% cpan -f -i Module::Foo

=item -F

Turn off CPAN.pm's attempts to lock anything. You should be careful with
this since you might end up with multiple scripts trying to muck in the
same directory. This isn't so much of a concern if you're loading a special
config with C<-j>, and that config sets up its own work directories.

=item -g module [ module ... ]

Downloads to the current directory the latest distribution of the module.

=item -G module [ module ... ]

UNIMPLEMENTED

Download to the current directory the latest distribution of the
modules, unpack each distribution, and create a git repository for each
distribution.

If you want this feature, check out Yanick Champoux's C<Git::CPAN::Patch>
distribution.

=item -h

Print a help message and exit. When you specify C<-h>, it ignores all
of the other options and arguments.

=item -i module [ module ... ]

Install the specified modules. With no other switches, this switch
is implied.

=item -I

Load C<local::lib> (think like C<-I> for loading lib paths). Too bad
C<-l> was already taken.

=item -j Config.pm

Load the file that has the CPAN configuration data. This should have the
same format as the standard F<CPAN/Config.pm> file, which defines
C<$CPAN::Config> as an anonymous hash.

If the file does not exist, C<cpan> dies.

=item -J

Dump the configuration in the same format that CPAN.pm uses. This is useful
for checking the configuration as well as using the dump as a starting point
for a new, custom configuration.

=item -l

List all installed modules with their versions

=item -L author [ author ... ]

List the modules by the specified authors.

=item -m

Make the specified modules.

=item -M mirror1,mirror2,...

A comma-separated list of mirrors to use for just this run. The C<-P>
option can find them for you automatically.

=item -n

Do a dry run, but don't actually install anything. (unimplemented)

=item -O

Show the out-of-date modules.

=item -p

Ping the configured mirrors and print a report

=item -P

Find the best mirrors you could be using and use them for the current
session.

=item -r

Recompiles dynamically loaded modules with CPAN::Shell->recompile.

=item -s

Drop in the CPAN.pm shell. This command does this automatically if you don't
specify any arguments.

=item -t module [ module ... ]

Run a `make test` on the specified modules.

=item -T

Do not test modules. Simply install them.

=item -u

Upgrade all installed modules. Blindly doing this can really break things,
so keep a backup.

=item -v

Print the script version and CPAN.pm version then exit.

=item -V

Print detailed information about the cpan client.

=item -w

UNIMPLEMENTED

Turn on cpan warnings. This checks various things, like directory permissions,
and tells you about problems you might have.

=item -x module [ module ... ]

Find close matches to the named modules that you think you might have
mistyped. This requires the optional installation of Text::Levenshtein or
Text::Levenshtein::Damerau.

=item -X

Dump all the namespaces to standard output.

=back

=head2 Examples

	# print a help message
	cpan -h

	# print the version numbers
	cpan -v

	# create an autobundle
	cpan -a

	# recompile modules
	cpan -r

	# upgrade all installed modules
	cpan -u

	# install modules ( sole -i is optional )
	cpan -i Netscape::Booksmarks Business::ISBN

	# force install modules ( must use -i )
	cpan -fi CGI::Minimal URI

	# install modules but without testing them
	cpan -Ti CGI::Minimal URI

=head2 Environment variables

There are several components in CPAN.pm that use environment variables.
The build tools, L<ExtUtils::MakeMaker> and L<Module::Build> use some,
while others matter to the levels above them. Some of these are specified
by the Perl Toolchain Gang:

Lancaster Consensus: L<https://github.com/Perl-Toolchain-Gang/toolchain-site/blob/master/lancaster-consensus.md>

Oslo Consensus: L<https://github.com/Perl-Toolchain-Gang/toolchain-site/blob/master/oslo-consensus.md>

=over 4

=item NONINTERACTIVE_TESTING

Assume no one is paying attention and skips prompts for distributions
that do that correctly. C<cpan(1)> sets this to C<1> unless it already
has a value (even if that value is false).

=item PERL_MM_USE_DEFAULT

Use the default answer for a prompted questions. C<cpan(1)> sets this
to C<1> unless it already has a value (even if that value is false).

=item CPAN_OPTS

As with C<PERL5OPT>, a string of additional C<cpan(1)> options to
add to those you specify on the command line.

=item CPANSCRIPT_LOGLEVEL

The log level to use, with either the embedded, minimal logger or
L<Log::Log4perl> if it is installed. Possible values are the same as
the C<Log::Log4perl> levels: C<TRACE>, C<DEBUG>, C<INFO>, C<WARN>,
C<ERROR>, and C<FATAL>. The default is C<INFO>.

=item GIT_COMMAND

The path to the C<git> binary to use for the Git features. The default
is C</usr/local/bin/git>.

=back
