=over 4

=item GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE

=back

=head2 perlaix - Perl version 5 on IBM AIX (UNIX) systems

=over 4

=item DESCRIPTION

=over 4

=item Compiling Perl 5 on AIX

=item Supported Compilers

=item Incompatibility with AIX Toolbox lib gdbm

=item Perl 5 was successfully compiled and tested on:

=item Building Dynamic Extensions on AIX

=item Using Large Files with Perl

=item Threaded Perl

=item 64-bit Perl

=item Long doubles

=item Recommended Options AIX 5.1/5.2/5.3/6.1 and 7.1 (threaded/32-bit)

=item Recommended Options AIX 5.1/5.2/5.3/6.1 and 7.1 (32-bit)

=item Recommended Options AIX 5.1/5.2/5.3/6.1 and 7.1 (threaded/64-bit)

=item Recommended Options AIX 5.1/5.2/5.3/6.1 and 7.1 (64-bit)

=item Compiling Perl 5 on AIX 7.1.0

=item Compiling Perl 5 on older AIX versions up to 4.3.3

=item OS level

=item Building Dynamic Extensions on AIX E<lt> 5L

=item The IBM ANSI C Compiler

=item The usenm option

=item Using GNU's gcc for building Perl

=item Using Large Files with Perl E<lt> 5L

=item Threaded Perl E<lt> 5L

=item 64-bit Perl E<lt> 5L

=item AIX 4.2 and extensions using C++ with statics

=back

=item AUTHORS

=back

=head2 perlamiga - Perl under AmigaOS 4.1

=over 4

=item NOTE

=item SYNOPSIS

=back

=over 4

=item DESCRIPTION

=over 4

=item Prerequisites for running Perl 5.22.1 under AmigaOS 4.1

B<AmigaOS 4.1 update 6 with all updates applied as of 9th October 2013>,
B<newlib.library version 53.28 or greater>, B<AmigaOS SDK>, B<abc-shell>

=item Starting Perl programs under AmigaOS 4.1

=item Limitations of Perl under AmigaOS 4.1

B<Nested Piped programs can crash when run from older abc-shells>,
B<Incorrect or unexpected command line unescaping>, B<Starting subprocesses
via open has limitations>, If you find any other limitations or bugs then
let me know

=back

=item INSTALLATION

=item Amiga Specific Modules

=over 4

=item Amiga::ARexx

=item Amiga::Exec

=back

=item BUILDING

=item CHANGES

B<August 2015>, Port to Perl 5.22, Add handling of NIL: to afstat(), Fix
inheritance of environment variables by subprocesses, Fix exec, and exit in
"forked" subprocesses, Fix issue with newlib's unlink, which could cause
infinite loops, Add flock() emulation using IDOS->LockRecord thanks to Tony
Cook for the suggestion, Fix issue where kill was using the wrong kind of
process ID, B<27th November 2013>, Create new installation system based on
installperl links and Amiga protection bits now set correctly, Pod now
defaults to text, File::Spec should now recognise an Amiga style absolute
path as well as an Unix style one. Relative paths must always be Unix
style, B<20th November 2013>, Configured to use SDK:Local/C/perl to start
standard scripts, Added Amiga::Exec module with support for Wait() and
AmigaOS signal numbers, B<10th October 13>

=item SEE ALSO

=back

=head2 perlandroid - Perl under Android

=over 4

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item Cross-compilation

=over 4

=item Get the Android Native Development Kit (NDK)

=item Determine the architecture you'll be cross-compiling for

=item Set up a standalone toolchain

=item adb or ssh?

=item Configure and beyond

=back

=item Native Builds

=over 4

=item CCTools

=item Termux

=back

=item AUTHOR

=back

=head2 perlbs2000 - building and installing Perl for BS2000.

=over 4

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=over 4

=item gzip on BS2000

=item bison on BS2000

=item Unpacking Perl Distribution on BS2000

=item Compiling Perl on BS2000

=item Testing Perl on BS2000

=item Installing Perl on BS2000

=item Using Perl in the Posix-Shell of BS2000

=item Using Perl in "native" BS2000

=item Floating point anomalies on BS2000

=item Using PerlIO and different encodings on ASCII and EBCDIC partitions

=back

=item AUTHORS

=item SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item Mailing list

=back

=item HISTORY

=back

=head2 perlcygwin - Perl for Cygwin

=over 4

=item SYNOPSIS

=item PREREQUISITES FOR COMPILING PERL ON CYGWIN

=over 4

=item Cygwin = GNU+Cygnus+Windows (Don't leave UNIX without it)

=item Cygwin Configuration

C<PATH>, I<nroff>

=back

=item CONFIGURE PERL ON CYGWIN

=over 4

=item Stripping Perl Binaries on Cygwin

=item Optional Libraries for Perl on Cygwin

C<-lcrypt>, C<-lgdbm_compat> (C<use GDBM_File>), C<-ldb> (C<use DB_File>),
C<cygserver> (C<use IPC::SysV>), C<-lutil>

=item Configure-time Options for Perl on Cygwin

C<-Uusedl>, C<-Dusemymalloc>, C<-Uuseperlio>, C<-Dusemultiplicity>,
C<-Uuse64bitint>, C<-Duselongdouble>, C<-Uuseithreads>, C<-Duselargefiles>,
C<-Dmksymlinks>

=back

=item MAKE ON CYGWIN

=item TEST ON CYGWIN

=over 4

=item File Permissions on Cygwin

=item NDBM_File and ODBM_File do not work on FAT filesystems

=item C<fork()> failures in io_* tests

=back

=item Specific features of the Cygwin port

=over 4

=item Script Portability on Cygwin

Pathnames, Text/Binary, PerlIO, F<.exe>, Cygwin vs. Windows process ids,
Cygwin vs. Windows errors, rebase errors on fork or system, Miscellaneous

=item Prebuilt methods:

C<Cwd::cwd>, C<Cygwin::pid_to_winpid>, C<Cygwin::winpid_to_pid>,
C<Cygwin::win_to_posix_path>, C<Cygwin::posix_to_win_path>,
C<Cygwin::mount_table()>, C<Cygwin::mount_flags>, C<Cygwin::is_binmount>,
C<Cygwin::sync_winenv>

=back

=item INSTALL PERL ON CYGWIN

=item MANIFEST ON CYGWIN

Documentation, Build, Configure, Make, Install, Tests, Compiled Perl
Source, Compiled Module Source, Perl Modules/Scripts, Perl Module Tests

=item BUGS ON CYGWIN

=item AUTHORS

=item HISTORY

=back

=head2 perlfreebsd - Perl version 5 on FreeBSD systems

=over 4

=item DESCRIPTION

=over 4

=item FreeBSD core dumps from readdir_r with ithreads

=item C<$^X> doesn't always contain a full path in FreeBSD

=back

=item AUTHOR

=back

=head2 perlhaiku - Perl version 5.10+ on Haiku

=over 4

=item DESCRIPTION

=item BUILD AND INSTALL

=item KNOWN PROBLEMS

=item CONTACT

=back

=head2 perlhpux - Perl version 5 on Hewlett-Packard Unix (HP-UX) systems

=over 4

=item DESCRIPTION

=over 4

=item Using perl as shipped with HP-UX

=item Using perl from HP's porting centre

=item Other prebuilt perl binaries

=item Compiling Perl 5 on HP-UX

=item PA-RISC

=item PA-RISC 1.0

=item PA-RISC 1.1

=item PA-RISC 2.0

=item Portability Between PA-RISC Versions

=item Itanium Processor Family (IPF) and HP-UX

=item Itanium, Itanium 2 & Madison 6

=item HP-UX versions

=item Building Dynamic Extensions on HP-UX

=item The HP ANSI C Compiler

=item The GNU C Compiler

=item Using Large Files with Perl on HP-UX

=item Threaded Perl on HP-UX

=item 64-bit Perl on HP-UX

=item Oracle on HP-UX

=item GDBM and Threads on HP-UX

=item NFS filesystems and utime(2) on HP-UX

=item HP-UX Kernel Parameters (maxdsiz) for Compiling Perl

=back

=item nss_delete core dump from op/pwent or op/grent

=item error: pasting ")" and "l" does not give a valid preprocessing token

=item Redeclaration of "sendpath" with a different storage class specifier

=item Miscellaneous

=item AUTHOR

=back

=head2 perlhurd - Perl version 5 on Hurd

=over 4

=item DESCRIPTION

=over 4

=item Known Problems with Perl on Hurd 

=back

=item AUTHOR

=back

=head2 perlirix - Perl version 5 on Irix systems

=over 4

=item DESCRIPTION

=over 4

=item Building 32-bit Perl in Irix

=item Building 64-bit Perl in Irix

=item About Compiler Versions of Irix

=item Linker Problems in Irix

=item Malloc in Irix

=item Building with threads in Irix

=item Irix 5.3

=back

=item AUTHOR

=back

=head2 perllinux - Perl version 5 on Linux systems

=over 4

=item DESCRIPTION

=over 4

=item Deploying Perl on Linux

=item Experimental Support for Sun Studio Compilers for Linux OS

=back

=item AUTHOR

=back

=head2 perlmacosx - Perl under Mac OS X

=over 4

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=over 4

=item Installation Prefix

=item SDK support

=item Universal Binary support

=item 64-bit PPC support

=item libperl and Prebinding

=item Updating Apple's Perl

=item Known problems

=item Cocoa

=back

=item Starting From Scratch

=item AUTHOR

=item DATE

=back

=head2 perlopenbsd - Perl version 5 on OpenBSD systems

=over 4

=item DESCRIPTION

=over 4

=item OpenBSD core dumps from getprotobyname_r and getservbyname_r with
ithreads

=back

=item AUTHOR

=back

=head2 perlos2 - Perl under OS/2, DOS, Win0.3*, Win0.95 and WinNT.

=over 4

=item SYNOPSIS

=back

=over 4

=item DESCRIPTION

=over 4

=item Target

=item Other OSes

=item Prerequisites

EMX, RSX, HPFS, pdksh

=item Starting Perl programs under OS/2 (and DOS and...)

=item Starting OS/2 (and DOS) programs under Perl

=back

=item Frequently asked questions

=over 4

=item "It does not work"

=item I cannot run external programs

=item I cannot embed perl into my program, or use F<perl.dll> from my
program. 

Is your program EMX-compiled with C<-Zmt -Zcrtdll>?, Did you use
L<ExtUtils::Embed>?

=item C<``> and pipe-C<open> do not work under DOS

=item Cannot start C<find.exe "pattern" file>

=back

=item INSTALLATION

=over 4

=item Automatic binary installation

C<PERL_BADLANG>, C<PERL_BADFREE>, F<Config.pm>

=item Manual binary installation

Perl VIO and PM executables (dynamically linked), Perl_ VIO executable
(statically linked), Executables for Perl utilities, Main Perl library,
Additional Perl modules, Tools to compile Perl modules, Manpages for Perl
and utilities, Manpages for Perl modules, Source for Perl documentation,
Perl manual in F<.INF> format, Pdksh

=item B<Warning>

=back

=item Accessing documentation

=over 4

=item OS/2 F<.INF> file

=item Plain text

=item Manpages

=item HTML

=item GNU C<info> files

=item F<PDF> files

=item C<LaTeX> docs

=back

=item BUILD

=over 4

=item The short story

=item Prerequisites

=item Getting perl source

=item Application of the patches

=item Hand-editing

=item Making

=item Testing

A lot of C<bad free>, Process terminated by SIGTERM/SIGINT, F<op/fs.t>,
Z<>18, Z<>25, F<op/stat.t>

=item Installing the built perl

=item C<a.out>-style build

=back

=item Building a binary distribution

=item Building custom F<.EXE> files

=over 4

=item Making executables with a custom collection of statically loaded
extensions

=item Making executables with a custom search-paths

=back

=item Build FAQ

=over 4

=item Some C</> became C<\> in pdksh

=item C<'errno'> - unresolved external

=item Problems with tr or sed

=item Some problem (forget which ;-)

=item Library ... not found

=item Segfault in make

=item op/sprintf test failure

=back

=item Specific (mis)features of OS/2 port

=over 4

=item C<setpriority>, C<getpriority>

=item C<system()>

=item C<extproc> on the first line

=item Additional modules:

=item Prebuilt methods:

C<File::Copy::syscopy>, C<DynaLoader::mod2fname>,  C<Cwd::current_drive()>,
 C<Cwd::sys_chdir(name)>,  C<Cwd::change_drive(name)>, 
C<Cwd::sys_is_absolute(name)>,	C<Cwd::sys_is_rooted(name)>, 
C<Cwd::sys_is_relative(name)>,	C<Cwd::sys_cwd(name)>, 
C<Cwd::sys_abspath(name, dir)>,  C<Cwd::extLibpath([type])>, 
C<Cwd::extLibpath_set( path [, type ] )>,
C<OS2::Error(do_harderror,do_exception)>, C<OS2::Errors2Drive(drive)>,
OS2::SysInfo(), OS2::BootDrive(), C<OS2::MorphPM(serve)>,
C<OS2::UnMorphPM(serve)>, C<OS2::Serve_Messages(force)>,
C<OS2::Process_Messages(force [, cnt])>, C<OS2::_control87(new,mask)>,
OS2::get_control87(), C<OS2::set_control87_em(new=MCW_EM,mask=MCW_EM)>,
C<OS2::DLLname([how [, \&xsub]])>

=item Prebuilt variables:

$OS2::emx_rev, $OS2::emx_env, $OS2::os_ver, $OS2::is_aout, $OS2::can_fork,
$OS2::nsyserror

=item Misfeatures

=item Modifications

C<popen>, C<tmpnam>, C<tmpfile>, C<ctermid>, C<stat>, C<mkdir>, C<rmdir>,
C<flock>

=item Identifying DLLs

=item Centralized management of resources

C<HAB>, C<HMQ>, Treating errors reported by OS/2 API,
C<CheckOSError(expr)>, C<CheckWinError(expr)>, C<SaveWinError(expr)>,
C<SaveCroakWinError(expr,die,name1,name2)>, C<WinError_2_Perl_rc>,
C<FillWinError>, C<FillOSError(rc)>, Loading DLLs and ordinals in DLLs

=back

=item Perl flavors

=over 4

=item F<perl.exe>

=item F<perl_.exe>

=item F<perl__.exe>

=item F<perl___.exe>

=item Why strange names?

=item Why dynamic linking?

=item Why chimera build?

=back

=item ENVIRONMENT

=over 4

=item C<PERLLIB_PREFIX>

=item C<PERL_BADLANG>

=item C<PERL_BADFREE>

=item C<PERL_SH_DIR>

=item C<USE_PERL_FLOCK>

=item C<TMP> or C<TEMP>

=back

=item Evolution

=over 4

=item Text-mode filehandles

=item Priorities

=item DLL name mangling: pre 5.6.2

=item DLL name mangling: 5.6.2 and beyond

Global DLLs, specific DLLs, C<BEGINLIBPATH> and C<ENDLIBPATH>, F<.> from
C<LIBPATH>

=item DLL forwarder generation

=item Threading

=item Calls to external programs

=item Memory allocation

=item Threads

C<COND_WAIT>, F<os2.c>

=back

=item BUGS

=back

=over 4

=item AUTHOR

=item SEE ALSO

=back

=head2 perlos390 - building and installing Perl for z/OS (previously called
OS/390)

=over 4

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=over 4

=item Tools

=item Building a 64-bit Dynamic ASCII Perl

=item Building a 64-bit Dynamic EBCDIC Perl

=item Setup and utilities for Perl on OS/390

=item Useful files for trouble-shooting

=item Build Anomalies with Perl on OS/390

=item Testing Anomalies with Perl on OS/390

=item Usage Hints for Perl on z/OS

=item Modules and Extensions for Perl on z/OS (Static Only)

=item Running Perl on z/OS

For ASCII Only:, For ASCII or EBCDIC:

=back

=item AUTHORS

=item OTHER SITES

=item HISTORY

=back

=head2 perlos400 - Perl version 5 on OS/400

=over 4

=item DESCRIPTION

=over 4

=item Compiling Perl for OS/400 PASE

=item Installing Perl in OS/400 PASE

=item Using Perl in OS/400 PASE

=item Known Problems

=item Perl on ILE

=back

=item AUTHORS

=back

=head2 perlplan9 - Plan 9-specific documentation for Perl

=over 4

=item DESCRIPTION

=over 4

=item Invoking Perl

=item What's in Plan 9 Perl

=item What's not in Plan 9 Perl

=item Perl5 Functions not currently supported in Plan 9 Perl

=item Signals in Plan 9 Perl

=back

=item COMPILING AND INSTALLING PERL ON PLAN 9

=over 4

=item Installing Perl Documentation on Plan 9

=back

=item BUGS

=item Revision date

=item AUTHOR

=back

=head2 perlqnx - Perl version 5 on QNX

=over 4

=item DESCRIPTION

=over 4

=item Required Software for Compiling Perl on QNX4

/bin/sh, ar, nm, cpp, make

=item Outstanding Issues with Perl on QNX4

=item QNX auxiliary files

qnx/ar, qnx/cpp

=item Outstanding issues with perl under QNX6

=item Cross-compilation

=back

=item AUTHOR

=back

=head2 perlriscos - Perl version 5 for RISC OS

=over 4

=item DESCRIPTION

=item BUILD

=item AUTHOR

=back

=head2 perlsolaris - Perl version 5 on Solaris systems

=over 4

=item DESCRIPTION

=over 4

=item Solaris Version Numbers

=back

=item RESOURCES

Solaris FAQ, Precompiled Binaries, Solaris Documentation

=item SETTING UP

=over 4

=item File Extraction Problems on Solaris

=item Compiler and Related Tools on Solaris

=item Environment for Compiling perl on Solaris

=back

=item RUN CONFIGURE

=over 4

=item 64-bit perl on Solaris

=item Threads in perl on Solaris

=item Malloc Issues with perl on Solaris

=back

=item MAKE PROBLEMS

Dynamic Loading Problems With GNU as and GNU ld, ld.so.1: ./perl: fatal:
relocation error:, dlopen: stub interception failed, #error "No
DATAMODEL_NATIVE specified", sh: ar: not found

=item MAKE TEST

=over 4

=item op/stat.t test 4 in Solaris

=item nss_delete core dump from op/pwent or op/grent

=back

=item CROSS-COMPILATION

=item PREBUILT BINARIES OF PERL FOR SOLARIS

=item RUNTIME ISSUES FOR PERL ON SOLARIS

=over 4

=item Limits on Numbers of Open Files on Solaris

