
=item Opening the same symbol as both a file and directory handle is no
longer allowed

=item Use of bare C<< << >> to mean C<< <<"" >> is no longer allowed

=item Setting $/ to a reference to a non-positive integer no longer allowed

=item Unicode code points with values exceeding C<IV_MAX> are now fatal

=item The C<B::OP::terse> method has been removed

=item Use of inherited AUTOLOAD for non-methods is no longer allowed

=item Use of strings with code points over 0xFF is not allowed for bitwise
string operators

=item Setting C<${^ENCODING}> to a defined value is now illegal

=item Backslash no longer escapes colon in PATH for the C<-S> switch

=item the -DH (DEBUG_H) misfeature has been removed

=item Yada-yada is now strictly a statement

=item Sort algorithm can no longer be specified

=item Over-radix digits in floating point literals

=item Return type of C<unpackstring()>

=back

=item Deprecations

=over 4

=item Use of L<C<vec>|perlfunc/vec EXPR,OFFSET,BITS> on strings with code
points above 0xFF is deprecated

=item Some uses of unescaped C<"{"> in regexes are no longer fatal

=item Use of unescaped C<"{"> immediately after a C<"("> in regular
expression patterns is deprecated

=item Assignment to C<$[> will be fatal in Perl 5.30

=item hostname() won't accept arguments in Perl 5.32

=item Module removals

B::Debug, L<Locale::Codes> and its associated Country, Currency and
Language modules

=back

=item Performance Enhancements

=item Modules and Pragmata

=over 4

=item Removal of use vars

=item Use of DynaLoader changed to XSLoader in many modules

=item Updated Modules and Pragmata

=item Removed Modules and Pragmata

=back

=item Documentation

=over 4

=item Changes to Existing Documentation

L<perldiag/Variable length lookbehind not implemented in regex
mE<sol>%sE<sol>>, "Use of state $_ is experimental" in L<perldiag>

=back

=item Diagnostics

=over 4

=item New Diagnostics

=item Changes to Existing Diagnostics

=back

=item Utility Changes

=over 4

=item L<perlbug>

=back

=item Configuration and Compilation

C89 requirement, New probes, HAS_BUILTIN_ADD_OVERFLOW,
HAS_BUILTIN_MUL_OVERFLOW, HAS_BUILTIN_SUB_OVERFLOW,
HAS_THREAD_SAFE_NL_LANGINFO_L, HAS_LOCALECONV_L, HAS_MBRLEN, HAS_MBRTOWC,
HAS_MEMRCHR, HAS_NANOSLEEP, HAS_STRNLEN, HAS_STRTOLD_L, I_WCHAR

=item Testing

=item Packaging

=item Platform Support

=over 4

=item Discontinued Platforms

PowerUX / Power MAX OS

=item Platform-Specific Notes

CentOS, Cygwin, Darwin, FreeBSD, VMS, Windows

=back

=item Internal Changes

=item Selected Bug Fixes

=item Acknowledgements

=item Reporting Bugs

=item Give Thanks

=item SEE ALSO

=back

=head2 perl5263delta - what is new for perl v5.26.3

=over 4

=item DESCRIPTION

=item Security

=over 4

=item [CVE-2018-12015] Directory traversal in module Archive::Tar

=item [CVE-2018-18311] Integer overflow leading to buffer overflow and
segmentation fault

=item [CVE-2018-18312] Heap-buffer-overflow write in S_regatom (regcomp.c)

=item [CVE-2018-18313] Heap-buffer-overflow read in S_grok_bslash_N
(regcomp.c)

=item [CVE-2018-18314] Heap-buffer-overflow write in S_regatom (regcomp.c)

=back

=item Incompatible Changes

=item Modules and Pragmata

=over 4

=item Updated Modules and Pragmata

=back

=item Diagnostics

=over 4

=item New Diagnostics

=item Changes to Existing Diagnostics

=back

=item Acknowledgements

=item Reporting Bugs

=item Give Thanks

=item SEE ALSO

=back

=head2 perl5262delta - what is new for perl v5.26.2

=over 4

=item DESCRIPTION

=item Security

=over 4

=item [CVE-2018-6797] heap-buffer-overflow (WRITE of size 1) in S_regatom
(regcomp.c)

=item [CVE-2018-6798] Heap-buffer-overflow in Perl__byte_dump_string
(utf8.c)

=item [CVE-2018-6913] heap-buffer-overflow in S_pack_rec

=item Assertion failure in Perl__core_swash_init (utf8.c)

=back

=item Incompatible Changes

=item Modules and Pragmata

=over 4

=item Updated Modules and Pragmata

=back

=item Documentation

=over 4

=item Changes to Existing Documentation

=back

=item Platform Support

=over 4

=item Platform-Specific Notes

Windows

=back

=item Selected Bug Fixes

=item Acknowledgements

=item Reporting Bugs

=item Give Thanks

=item SEE ALSO

=back

=head2 perl5261delta - what is new for perl v5.26.1

=over 4

=item DESCRIPTION

=item Security

=over 4

=item [CVE-2017-12837] Heap buffer overflow in regular expression compiler

=item [CVE-2017-12883] Buffer over-read in regular expression parser

=item [CVE-2017-12814] C<$ENV{$key}> stack buffer overflow on Windows

=back

=item Incompatible Changes

=item Modules and Pragmata

=over 4

=item Updated Modules and Pragmata

=back

=item Platform Support

=over 4

=item Platform-Specific Notes

FreeBSD, Windows

=back

=item Selected Bug Fixes

=item Acknowledgements

=item Reporting Bugs

=item Give Thanks

=item SEE ALSO

=back

=head2 perl5260delta - what is new for perl v5.26.0

=over 4

=item DESCRIPTION

=item Notice

C<"."> no longer in C<@INC>, C<do> may now warn, In regular expression
patterns, a literal left brace C<"{"> should be escaped

=item Core Enhancements

=over 4

=item Lexical subroutines are no longer experimental

=item Indented Here-documents

=item New regular expression modifier C</xx>

=item C<@{^CAPTURE}>, C<%{^CAPTURE}>, and C<%{^CAPTURE_ALL}>

=item Declaring a reference to a variable

=item Unicode 9.0 is now supported

=item Use of C<\p{I<script>}> uses the improved Script_Extensions property

=item Perl can now do default collation in UTF-8 locales on platforms
that support it

=item Better locale collation of strings containing embedded C<NUL>
characters

=item C<CORE> subroutines for hash and array functions callable via
reference

=item New Hash Function For 64-bit Builds

=back

=item Security

=over 4

=item Removal of the current directory (C<".">) from C<@INC>

F<Configure -Udefault_inc_excludes_dot>, C<PERL_USE_UNSAFE_INC>, A new
deprecation warning issued by C<do>, Script authors, Installing and using
CPAN modules, Module Authors

=item Escaped colons and relative paths in PATH

=item New C<-Di> switch is now required for PerlIO debugging output

=back

=item Incompatible Changes

=over 4

=item Unescaped literal C<"{"> characters in regular expression
patterns are no longer permissible

=item C<scalar(%hash)> return signature changed

=item C<keys> returned from an lvalue subroutine

=item The C<${^ENCODING}> facility has been removed

=item C<POSIX::tmpnam()> has been removed

=item require ::Foo::Bar is now illegal

=item Literal control character variable names are no longer permissible

=item C<NBSP> is no longer permissible in C<\N{...}>

=back

=item Deprecations

=over 4

=item String delimiters that aren't stand-alone graphemes are now
deprecated

=item C<\cI<X>> that maps to a printable is no longer deprecated

=back

=item Performance Enhancements

New Faster Hash Function on 64 bit builds, readline is faster

=item Modules and Pragmata

=over 4

=item Updated Modules and Pragmata

=back

=item Documentation

=over 4

=item New Documentation

=item Changes to Existing Documentation

=back

=item Diagnostics

=over 4

=item New Diagnostics

=item Changes to Existing Diagnostics

=back

=item Utility Changes

=over 4

=item F<c2ph> and F<pstruct>

=item F<Porting/pod_lib.pl>

=item F<Porting/sync-with-cpan>

=item F<perf/benchmarks>

=item F<Porting/checkAUTHORS.pl>

=item F<t/porting/regen.t>

=item F<utils/h2xs.PL>

=item L<perlbug>

=back

=item Configuration and Compilation

=item Testing

=item Platform Support

=over 4

=item New Platforms

NetBSD/VAX

=item Platform-Specific Notes

Darwin, EBCDIC, HP-UX, Hurd, VAX, VMS, Windows, Linux, OpenBSD 6, FreeBSD,
DragonFly BSD

=back

=item Internal Changes

=item Selected Bug Fixes

=item Known Problems

=item Errata From Previous Releases

=item Obituary

=item Acknowledgements

=item Reporting Bugs

=item Give Thanks

=item SEE ALSO

=back

=head2 perl5244delta - what is new for perl v5.24.4

=over 4

=item DESCRIPTION

=item Security

=over 4

=item [CVE-2018-6797] heap-buffer-overflow (WRITE of size 1) in S_regatom
(regcomp.c)

=item [CVE-2018-6798] Heap-buffer-overflow in Perl__byte_dump_string
(utf8.c)

=item [CVE-2018-6913] heap-buffer-overflow in S_pack_rec

=item Assertion failure in Perl__core_swash_init (utf8.c)

=back

=item Incompatible Changes

=item Modules and Pragmata

=over 4

=item Updated Modules and Pragmata

=back

=item Selected Bug Fixes

=item Acknowledgements

=item Reporting Bugs

=item SEE ALSO

=back

=head2 perl5243delta - what is new for perl v5.24.3

=over 4

=item DESCRIPTION

=item Security

=over 4

=item [CVE-2017-12837] Heap buffer overflow in regular expression compiler

=item [CVE-2017-12883] Buffer over-read in regular expression parser

=item [CVE-2017-12814] C<$ENV{$key}> stack buffer overflow on Windows

=back

=item Incompatible Changes

=item Modules and Pragmata

=over 4

=item Updated Modules and Pragmata

=back

=item Configuration and Compilation

=item Platform Support

=over 4

=item Platform-Specific Notes

VMS, Windows

=back

=item Selected Bug Fixes

=item Acknowledgements

=item Reporting Bugs

=item SEE ALSO

=back

=head2 perl5242delta - what is new for perl v5.24.2

=over 4

=item DESCRIPTION

=item Security

=over 4

=item Improved handling of '.' in @INC in base.pm

=item "Escaped" colons and relative paths in PATH

=back

=item Modules and Pragmata

=over 4

=item Updated Modules and Pragmata

=back

=item Selected Bug Fixes

=item Acknowledgements

=item Reporting Bugs

=item SEE ALSO

=back

=head2 perl5241delta - what is new for perl v5.24.1

=over 4

=item DESCRIPTION

=item Security

=over 4

=item B<-Di> switch is now required for PerlIO debugging output

=item Core modules and tools no longer search F<"."> for optional modules

=back

=item Incompatible Changes

=item Modules and Pragmata

=over 4

=item Updated Modules and Pragmata

=back

=item Documentation

=over 4

=item Changes to Existing Documentation

=back

=item Testing

=item Selected Bug Fixes

=item Acknowledgements

=item Reporting Bugs

=item SEE ALSO

=back

=head2 perl5240delta - what is new for perl v5.24.0

=over 4

=item DESCRIPTION

=item Core Enhancements

=over 4

=item Postfix dereferencing is no longer experimental

=item Unicode 8.0 is now supported

=item perl will now croak when closing an in-place output file fails

=item New C<\b{lb}> boundary in regular expressions

=item C<qr/(?[ ])/> now works in UTF-8 locales

=item Integer shift (C<< << >> and C<< >> >>) now more explicitly defined

=item printf and sprintf now allow reordered precision arguments

=item More fields provided to C<sigaction> callback with C<SA_SIGINFO>

=item Hashbang redirection to Perl 6

=back

=item Security

=over 4

=item Set proper umask before calling C<mkstemp(3)>

=item Fix out of boundary access in Win32 path handling

=item Fix loss of taint in canonpath

=item Avoid accessing uninitialized memory in win32 C<crypt()>

=item Remove duplicate environment variables from C<environ>

=back

=item Incompatible Changes

=over 4

=item The C<autoderef> feature has been removed

=item Lexical $_ has been removed

=item C<qr/\b{wb}/> is now tailored to Perl expectations

=item Regular expression compilation errors

=item C<qr/\N{}/> now disallowed under C<use re "strict">

=item Nested declarations are now disallowed

=item The C</\C/> character class has been removed

=item C<chdir('')> no longer chdirs home

=item ASCII characters in variable names must now be all visible

=item An off by one issue in C<$Carp::MaxArgNums> has been fixed

=item Only blanks and tabs are now allowed within C<[...]> within
C<(?[...])>

=back

=item Deprecations

=over 4

=item Using code points above the platform's C<IV_MAX> is now deprecated

=item Doing bitwise operations on strings containing code points above
0xFF is deprecated

=item C<sysread()>, C<syswrite()>, C<recv()> and C<send()> are deprecated
on
:utf8 handles

=back

=item Performance Enhancements

=item Modules and Pragmata

=over 4

=item Updated Modules and Pragmata

=back

=item Documentation

=over 4

=item Changes to Existing Documentation

=back

=item Diagnostics

=over 4

=item New Diagnostics

=item Changes to Existing Diagnostics

=back

=item Configuration and Compilation

=item Testing

=item Platform Support

=over 4

=item Platform-Specific Notes

AmigaOS, Cygwin, EBCDIC, UTF-EBCDIC extended, EBCDIC C<cmp()> and C<sort()>
fixed for UTF-EBCDIC strings, EBCDIC C<tr///> and C<y///> fixed for
C<\N{}>, and C<S<use utf8>> ranges, FreeBSD, IRIX, MacOS X, Solaris, Tru64,
VMS, Win32, ppc64el, floating point

=back

=item Internal Changes

=item Selected Bug Fixes

=item Acknowledgements

=item Reporting Bugs

=item SEE ALSO

=back

=head2 perl5224delta - what is new for perl v5.22.4

=over 4

=item DESCRIPTION

=item Security

=over 4

=item Improved handling of '.' in @INC in base.pm

=item "Escaped" colons and relative paths in PATH

=back

=item Modules and Pragmata

=over 4

=item Updated Modules and Pragmata

=back

=item Selected Bug Fixes

=item Acknowledgements

=item Reporting Bugs

=item SEE ALSO

=back

=head2 perl5223delta - what is new for perl v5.22.3

=over 4

=item DESCRIPTION

=item Security

=over 4

=item B<-Di> switch is now required for PerlIO debugging output

=item Core modules and tools no longer search F<"."> for optional modules

=back

=item Incompatible Changes

=item Modules and Pragmata

=over 4

=item Updated Modules and Pragmata

=back

=item Documentation

=over 4

=item Changes to Existing Documentation

=back

=item Testing

=item Selected Bug Fixes

=item Acknowledgements

=item Reporting Bugs

=item SEE ALSO

=back

=head2 perl5222delta - what is new for perl v5.22.2

=over 4

=item DESCRIPTION

=item Security

=over 4

=item Fix out of boundary access in Win32 path handling

=item Fix loss of taint in C<canonpath()>

=item Set proper umask before calling C<mkstemp(3)>

=item Avoid accessing uninitialized memory in Win32 C<crypt()>

=item Remove duplicate environment variables from C<environ>

=back

=item Incompatible Changes

=item Modules and Pragmata

=over 4

=item Updated Modules and Pragmata

=back

=item Documentation

=over 4

=item Changes to Existing Documentation

=back

=item Configuration and Compilation

=item Platform Support

=over 4

=item Platform-Specific Notes

Darwin, OS X/Darwin, ppc64el, Tru64

=back

=item Internal Changes

=item Selected Bug Fixes

=item Acknowledgements

=item Reporting Bugs

=item SEE ALSO

=back

=head2 perl5221delta - what is new for perl v5.22.1

=over 4

=item DESCRIPTION

=item Incompatible Changes

=over 4

=item Bounds Checking Constructs

=back

=item Modules and Pragmata

=over 4

=item Updated Modules and Pragmata

=back

=item Documentation

=over 4

=item Changes to Existing Documentation

=back

=item Diagnostics

=over 4

=item Changes to Existing Diagnostics

=back

=item Configuration and Compilation

=item Platform Support

=over 4

=item Platform-Specific Notes

