
=item AUTHOR

=back

=head2 FileCache - keep more files open than the system permits

=over 4

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

cacheout EXPR, cacheout MODE, EXPR

=item CAVEATS

=item BUGS

=back

=head2 FileHandle - supply object methods for filehandles

=over 4

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

$fh->print, $fh->printf, $fh->getline, $fh->getlines

=item SEE ALSO

=back

=head2 Filter::Simple - Simplified source filtering

=over 4

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=over 4

=item The Problem

=item A Solution

=item Disabling or changing <no> behaviour

=item All-in-one interface

=item Filtering only specific components of source code

C<"code">, C<"code_no_comments">, C<"executable">,
C<"executable_no_comments">, C<"quotelike">, C<"string">, C<"regex">,
C<"all">

=item Filtering only the code parts of source code

=item Using Filter::Simple with an explicit C<import> subroutine

=item Using Filter::Simple and Exporter together

=item How it works

=back

=item AUTHOR

=item CONTACT

=item COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

=back

=head2 Filter::Util::Call - Perl Source Filter Utility Module

=over 4

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=over 4

=item B<use Filter::Util::Call>

=item B<import()>

=item B<filter_add()>

=item B<filter() and anonymous sub>

B<$_>, B<$status>, B<filter_read> and B<filter_read_exact>, B<filter_del>,
I<real_import>, I<unimport()>

=back

=item LIMITATIONS

__DATA__ is ignored, Max. codesize limited to 32-bit

=item EXAMPLES

=over 4

=item Example 1: A simple filter.

=item Example 2: Using the context

=item Example 3: Using the context within the filter

=item Example 4: Using filter_del

=back

=item Filter::Simple

=item AUTHOR

=item DATE

=item LICENSE

=back

=head2 FindBin - Locate directory of original Perl script

=over 4

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item EXPORTABLE VARIABLES

C<$Bin> or C<$Dir>, C<$Script>, C<$RealBin> or C<$RealDir>, C<$RealScript>

=item KNOWN ISSUES

=item AUTHORS

=item COPYRIGHT

=back

=head2 GDBM_File - Perl5 access to the gdbm library.

=over 4

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=over 4

=item Tie

B<GDBM_READER>, B<GDBM_WRITER>, B<GDBM_WRCREAT>, B<GDBM_NEWDB>

=back

=item STATIC METHODS

=over 4

=item GDBM_version

1  - exact guess, 2  - approximate, 3  - rough guess

=back

=item ERROR HANDLING

=over 4

=item $GDBM_File::gdbm_errno

=item gdbm_check_syserr

=back

=item DATABASE METHODS

=over 4

=item close

=item errno

=item syserrno

=item strerror

=item clear_error

=item needs_recovery

=item reorganize

=item sync

=item count

=item flags

=item dbname

=item cache_size

=item block_size

=item sync_mode

=item centfree

=item coalesce

=item mmap

=item mmapsize

=item recover

err => sub { ... }, backup => \$str, max_failed_keys => $n,
max_failed_buckets => $n, max_failures => $n, stat => \%hash,
recovered_keys, recovered_buckets, failed_keys, failed_buckets

=item convert

=item dump

B<binary> => 1, B<mode> => I<MODE>, B<overwrite> => 1

=item load

B<replace> => 1, B<restore_mode> => 0 | 1, B<restore_owner> => 0 | 1,
B<strict_errors> => 1

=back

=item CRASH TOLERANCE

=over 4

=item crash_tolerance_status

=item failure_atomic

=item latest_snapshot

GDBM_SNAPSHOT_BAD, GDBM_SNAPSHOT_ERR, GDBM_SNAPSHOT_SAME,
GDBM_SNAPSHOT_SUSPICIOUS

=back

=item AVAILABILITY

=item SECURITY AND PORTABILITY

=item SEE ALSO

=back

=head2 Getopt::Long - Extended processing of command line options

=over 4

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item Command Line Options, an Introduction

=item Getting Started with Getopt::Long

=over 4

=item Simple options

=item A little bit less simple options

=item Mixing command line option with other arguments

=item Options with values

=item Options with multiple values

=item Options with hash values

=item User-defined subroutines to handle options

=item Options with multiple names

=item Case and abbreviations

=item Summary of Option Specifications

!, +, s, i, o, f, : I<type> [ I<desttype> ], : I<number> [ I<desttype> ], :
+ [ I<desttype> ]

=back

=item Advanced Possibilities

=over 4

=item Object oriented interface

=item Callback object

name, given

=item Thread Safety

=item Documentation and help texts

=item Parsing options from an arbitrary array

=item Parsing options from an arbitrary string

=item Storing options values in a hash

=item Bundling

=item The lonesome dash

=item Argument callback

=back

=item Configuring Getopt::Long

default, posix_default, auto_abbrev, getopt_compat, gnu_compat, gnu_getopt,
require_order, permute, bundling (default: disabled), bundling_override
(default: disabled), ignore_case  (default: enabled), ignore_case_always
(default: disabled), auto_version (default:disabled), auto_help
(default:disabled), pass_through (default: disabled), prefix,
prefix_pattern, long_prefix_pattern, debug (default: disabled)

=item Exportable Methods

VersionMessage, C<-message>, C<-msg>, C<-exitval>, C<-output>, HelpMessage

=item Return values and Errors

=item Legacy

=over 4

=item Default destinations

=item Alternative option starters

=item Configuration variables

=back

=item Tips and Techniques

=over 4

=item Pushing multiple values in a hash option

=back

=item Troubleshooting

=over 4

=item GetOptions does not return a false result when an option is not
supplied

=item GetOptions does not split the command line correctly

=item Undefined subroutine &main::GetOptions called

=item How do I put a "-?" option into a Getopt::Long?

=back

=item AUTHOR

=item COPYRIGHT AND DISCLAIMER

=back

=head2 Getopt::Long::Parser - Getopt::Long object oriented interface

=over 4

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item CONSTRUCTOR

config

=back

=over 4

=item METHODS

=over 4

=item configure

=back

=back

=over 4

=item getoptionsfromarray

=item getoptions

=back

=over 4

=item SEE ALSO

=item AUTHOR

=item COPYRIGHT AND DISCLAIMER

=back

=head2 Getopt::Std - Process single-character switches with switch
clustering

=over 4

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item C<--help> and C<--version>

=back

=head2 HTTP::Tiny - A small, simple, correct HTTP/1.1 client

=over 4

=item VERSION

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item METHODS

=over 4

=item new

=item get|head|put|post|patch|delete

=item post_form

=item mirror

=item request

=item www_form_urlencode

=item can_ssl

=item connected

=back

=item TLS/SSL SUPPORT

=item PROXY SUPPORT

=item LIMITATIONS

=item SEE ALSO

=item SUPPORT

=over 4

=item Bugs / Feature Requests

=item Source Code

=back

=item AUTHORS

=item CONTRIBUTORS

=item COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

=back

=head2 Hash::Util - A selection of general-utility hash subroutines

=over 4

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=over 4

=item Restricted hashes

B<lock_keys>, B<unlock_keys>

=back

=back

B<lock_keys_plus>

B<lock_value>, B<unlock_value>

B<lock_hash>, B<unlock_hash>

B<lock_hash_recurse>, B<unlock_hash_recurse>

B<hashref_locked>, B<hash_locked>

B<hashref_unlocked>, B<hash_unlocked>

B<legal_keys>, B<hidden_keys>, B<all_keys>, B<hash_seed>, B<hash_value>,
B<bucket_info>, B<bucket_stats>, B<bucket_array>

B<bucket_stats_formatted>

B<hv_store>, B<hash_traversal_mask>, B<bucket_ratio>, B<used_buckets>,
B<num_buckets>

=over 4

=item Operating on references to hashes

lock_ref_keys, unlock_ref_keys, lock_ref_keys_plus, lock_ref_value,
unlock_ref_value, lock_hashref, unlock_hashref, lock_hashref_recurse,
unlock_hashref_recurse, hash_ref_unlocked, legal_ref_keys, hidden_ref_keys

=back

=over 4

=item CAVEATS

=item BUGS

=item AUTHOR

=item SEE ALSO

=back

=head2 Hash::Util::FieldHash - Support for Inside-Out Classes

=over 4

=item SYNOPSIS

=item FUNCTIONS

id, id_2obj, register, idhash, idhashes, fieldhash, fieldhashes

=item DESCRIPTION

=over 4

=item The Inside-out Technique

=item Problems of Inside-out

=item Solutions

=item More Problems

=item The Generic Object

=item How to use Field Hashes

=item Garbage-Collected Hashes

=back

=item EXAMPLES

C<init()>, C<first()>, C<last()>, C<name()>, C<Name_hash>, C<Name_id>,
C<Name_idhash>, C<Name_id_reg>, C<Name_idhash_reg>, C<Name_fieldhash>

=over 4

=item Example 1

=item Example 2

=back

=item GUTS

=over 4

=item The C<PERL_MAGIC_uvar> interface for hashes

=item Weakrefs call uvar magic

=item How field hashes work

=item Internal function Hash::Util::FieldHash::_fieldhash

=back

=item AUTHOR

=item COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

=back

=head2 I18N::Collate - compare 8-bit scalar data according to the current
locale

=over 4

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=back

=head2 I18N::LangTags - functions for dealing with RFC3066-style language
tags

=over 4

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=back

the function is_language_tag($lang1)

the function extract_language_tags($whatever)

the function same_language_tag($lang1, $lang2)

the function similarity_language_tag($lang1, $lang2)

the function is_dialect_of($lang1, $lang2)

the function super_languages($lang1)

the function locale2language_tag($locale_identifier)

the function encode_language_tag($lang1)

the function alternate_language_tags($lang1)

the function @langs = panic_languages(@accept_languages)

the function implicate_supers( ...languages... ), the function
implicate_supers_strictly( ...languages... )

=over 4

=item ABOUT LOWERCASING

=item ABOUT UNICODE PLAINTEXT LANGUAGE TAGS

=item SEE ALSO

=item COPYRIGHT

=item AUTHOR

=back

=head2 I18N::LangTags::Detect - detect the user's language preferences

=over 4

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item FUNCTIONS

=item ENVIRONMENT

=item SEE ALSO

=item COPYRIGHT

=item AUTHOR

=back

=head2 I18N::LangTags::List -- tags and names for human languages

=over 4

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item ABOUT LANGUAGE TAGS

=item LIST OF LANGUAGES

{ab} : Abkhazian, {ace} : Achinese, {ach} : Acoli, {ada} : Adangme, {ady} :
Adyghe, {aa} : Afar, {afh} : Afrihili, {af} : Afrikaans, [{afa} :
Afro-Asiatic (Other)], {ak} : Akan, {akk} : Akkadian, {sq} : Albanian,
{ale} : Aleut, [{alg} : Algonquian languages], [{tut} : Altaic (Other)],
{am} : Amharic, {i-ami} : Ami, [{apa} : Apache languages], {ar} : Arabic,
{arc} : Aramaic, {arp} : Arapaho, {arn} : Araucanian, {arw} : Arawak, {hy}
: Armenian, {an} : Aragonese, [{art} : Artificial (Other)], {ast} :
Asturian, {as} : Assamese, [{ath} : Athapascan languages], [{aus} :
Australian languages], [{map} : Austronesian (Other)], {av} : Avaric, {ae}
: Avestan, {awa} : Awadhi, {ay} : Aymara, {az} : Azerbaijani, {ban} :
Balinese, [{bat} : Baltic (Other)], {bal} : Baluchi, {bm} : Bambara, [{bai}
: Bamileke languages], {bad} : Banda, [{bnt} : Bantu (Other)], {bas} :
Basa, {ba} : Bashkir, {eu} : Basque, {btk} : Batak (Indonesia), {bej} :
Beja, {be} : Belarusian, {bem} : Bemba, {bn} : Bengali, [{ber} : Berber
(Other)], {bho} : Bhojpuri, {bh} : Bihari, {bik} : Bikol, {bin} : Bini,
{bi} : Bislama, {bs} : Bosnian, {bra} : Braj, {br} : Breton, {bug} :
Buginese, {bg} : Bulgarian, {i-bnn} : Bunun, {bua} : Buriat, {my} :
Burmese, {cad} : Caddo, {car} : Carib, {ca} : Catalan, [{cau} : Caucasian
(Other)], {ceb} : Cebuano, [{cel} : Celtic (Other)], [{cai} : Central
American Indian (Other)], {chg} : Chagatai, [{cmc} : Chamic languages],
{ch} : Chamorro, {ce} : Chechen, {chr} : Cherokee, {chy} : Cheyenne, {chb}
: Chibcha, {ny} : Chichewa, {zh} : Chinese, {chn} : Chinook Jargon, {chp} :
Chipewyan, {cho} : Choctaw, {cu} : Church Slavic, {chk} : Chuukese, {cv} :
Chuvash, {cop} : Coptic, {kw} : Cornish, {co} : Corsican, {cr} : Cree,
{mus} : Creek, [{cpe} : English-based Creoles and pidgins (Other)], [{cpf}
: French-based Creoles and pidgins (Other)], [{cpp} : Portuguese-based
Creoles and pidgins (Other)], [{crp} : Creoles and pidgins (Other)], {hr} :
Croatian, [{cus} : Cushitic (Other)], {cs} : Czech, {dak} : Dakota, {da} :
Danish, {dar} : Dargwa, {day} : Dayak, {i-default} : Default (Fallthru)
Language, {del} : Delaware, {din} : Dinka, {dv} : Divehi, {doi} : Dogri,
{dgr} : Dogrib, [{dra} : Dravidian (Other)], {dua} : Duala, {nl} : Dutch,
{dum} : Middle Dutch (ca.1050-1350), {dyu} : Dyula, {dz} : Dzongkha, {efi}
: Efik, {egy} : Ancient Egyptian, {eka} : Ekajuk, {elx} : Elamite, {en} :
English, {enm} : Old English (1100-1500), {ang} : Old English
(ca.450-1100), {i-enochian} : Enochian (Artificial), {myv} : Erzya, {eo} :
Esperanto, {et} : Estonian, {ee} : Ewe, {ewo} : Ewondo, {fan} : Fang, {fat}
: Fanti, {fo} : Faroese, {fj} : Fijian, {fi} : Finnish, [{fiu} :
Finno-Ugrian (Other)], {fon} : Fon, {fr} : French, {frm} : Middle French
(ca.1400-1600), {fro} : Old French (842-ca.1400), {fy} : Frisian, {fur} :
Friulian, {ff} : Fulah, {gaa} : Ga, {gd} : Scots Gaelic, {gl} : Gallegan,
{lg} : Ganda, {gay} : Gayo, {gba} : Gbaya, {gez} : Geez, {ka} : Georgian,
{de} : German, {gmh} : Middle High German (ca.1050-1500), {goh} : Old High
German (ca.750-1050), [{gem} : Germanic (Other)], {gil} : Gilbertese, {gon}
: Gondi, {gor} : Gorontalo, {got} : Gothic, {grb} : Grebo, {grc} : Ancient
Greek, {el} : Modern Greek, {gn} : Guarani, {gu} : Gujarati, {gwi} :
Gwich'in, {hai} : Haida, {ht} : Haitian, {ha} : Hausa, {haw} : Hawaiian,
{he} : Hebrew, {hz} : Herero, {hil} : Hiligaynon, {him} : Himachali, {hi} :
Hindi, {ho} : Hiri Motu, {hit} : Hittite, {hmn} : Hmong, {hu} : Hungarian,
{hup} : Hupa, {iba} : Iban, {is} : Icelandic, {io} : Ido, {ig} : Igbo,
{ijo} : Ijo, {ilo} : Iloko, [{inc} : Indic (Other)], [{ine} : Indo-European
(Other)], {id} : Indonesian, {inh} : Ingush, {ia} : Interlingua
(International Auxiliary Language Association), {ie} : Interlingue, {iu} :
Inuktitut, {ik} : Inupiaq, [{ira} : Iranian (Other)], {ga} : Irish, {mga} :
Middle Irish (900-1200), {sga} : Old Irish (to 900), [{iro} : Iroquoian
languages], {it} : Italian, {ja} : Japanese, {jv} : Javanese, {jrb} :
Judeo-Arabic, {jpr} : Judeo-Persian, {kbd} : Kabardian, {kab} : Kabyle,
{kac} : Kachin, {kl} : Kalaallisut, {xal} : Kalmyk, {kam} : Kamba, {kn} :
Kannada, {kr} : Kanuri, {krc} : Karachay-Balkar, {kaa} : Kara-Kalpak, {kar}
: Karen, {ks} : Kashmiri, {csb} : Kashubian, {kaw} : Kawi, {kk} : Kazakh,
{kha} : Khasi, {km} : Khmer, [{khi} : Khoisan (Other)], {kho} : Khotanese,
{ki} : Kikuyu, {kmb} : Kimbundu, {rw} : Kinyarwanda, {ky} : Kirghiz,
{i-klingon} : Klingon, {kv} : Komi, {kg} : Kongo, {kok} : Konkani, {ko} :
Korean, {kos} : Kosraean, {kpe} : Kpelle, {kro} : Kru, {kj} : Kuanyama,
{kum} : Kumyk, {ku} : Kurdish, {kru} : Kurukh, {kut} : Kutenai, {lad} :
Ladino, {lah} : Lahnda, {lam} : Lamba, {lo} : Lao, {la} : Latin, {lv} :
Latvian, {lb} : Letzeburgesch, {lez} : Lezghian, {li} : Limburgish, {ln} :
Lingala, {lt} : Lithuanian, {nds} : Low German, {art-lojban} : Lojban
(Artificial), {loz} : Lozi, {lu} : Luba-Katanga, {lua} : Luba-Lulua, {lui}
: Luiseno, {lun} : Lunda, {luo} : Luo (Kenya and Tanzania), {lus} : Lushai,
{mk} : Macedonian, {mad} : Madurese, {mag} : Magahi, {mai} : Maithili,
{mak} : Makasar, {mg} : Malagasy, {ms} : Malay, {ml} : Malayalam, {mt} :
Maltese, {mnc} : Manchu, {mdr} : Mandar, {man} : Mandingo, {mni} :
Manipuri, [{mno} : Manobo languages], {gv} : Manx, {mi} : Maori, {mr} :
Marathi, {chm} : Mari, {mh} : Marshall, {mwr} : Marwari, {mas} : Masai,
[{myn} : Mayan languages], {men} : Mende, {mic} : Micmac, {min} :
Minangkabau, {i-mingo} : Mingo, [{mis} : Miscellaneous languages], {moh} :
Mohawk, {mdf} : Moksha, {mo} : Moldavian, [{mkh} : Mon-Khmer (Other)],
{lol} : Mongo, {mn} : Mongolian, {mos} : Mossi, [{mul} : Multiple
languages], [{mun} : Munda languages], {nah} : Nahuatl, {nap} : Neapolitan,
{na} : Nauru, {nv} : Navajo, {nd} : North Ndebele, {nr} : South Ndebele,
{ng} : Ndonga, {ne} : Nepali, {new} : Newari, {nia} : Nias, [{nic} :
Niger-Kordofanian (Other)], [{ssa} : Nilo-Saharan (Other)], {niu} : Niuean,
{nog} : Nogai, {non} : Old Norse, [{nai} : North American Indian], {no} :
Norwegian, {nb} : Norwegian Bokmal, {nn} : Norwegian Nynorsk, [{nub} :
Nubian languages], {nym} : Nyamwezi, {nyn} : Nyankole, {nyo} : Nyoro, {nzi}
: Nzima, {oc} : Occitan (post 1500), {oj} : Ojibwa, {or} : Oriya, {om} :
Oromo, {osa} : Osage, {os} : Ossetian; Ossetic, [{oto} : Otomian
languages], {pal} : Pahlavi, {i-pwn} : Paiwan, {pau} : Palauan, {pi} :
Pali, {pam} : Pampanga, {pag} : Pangasinan, {pa} : Panjabi, {pap} :
Papiamento, [{paa} : Papuan (Other)], {fa} : Persian, {peo} : Old Persian
(ca.600-400 B.C.), [{phi} : Philippine (Other)], {phn} : Phoenician, {pon}
: Pohnpeian, {pl} : Polish, {pt} : Portuguese, [{pra} : Prakrit languages],
{pro} : Old Provencal (to 1500), {ps} : Pushto, {qu} : Quechua, {rm} :
Raeto-Romance, {raj} : Rajasthani, {rap} : Rapanui, {rar} : Rarotongan,
[{qaa - qtz} : Reserved for local use.], [{roa} : Romance (Other)], {ro} :
Romanian, {rom} : Romany, {rn} : Rundi, {ru} : Russian, [{sal} : Salishan
languages], {sam} : Samaritan Aramaic, {se} : Northern Sami, {sma} :
Southern Sami, {smn} : Inari Sami, {smj} : Lule Sami, {sms} : Skolt Sami,
[{smi} : Sami languages (Other)], {sm} : Samoan, {sad} : Sandawe, {sg} :
Sango, {sa} : Sanskrit, {sat} : Santali, {sc} : Sardinian, {sas} : Sasak,
{sco} : Scots, {sel} : Selkup, [{sem} : Semitic (Other)], {sr} : Serbian,
{srr} : Serer, {shn} : Shan, {sn} : Shona, {sid} : Sidamo, {sgn-...} : Sign
Languages, {bla} : Siksika, {sd} : Sindhi, {si} : Sinhalese, [{sit} :
Sino-Tibetan (Other)], [{sio} : Siouan languages], {den} : Slave
(Athapascan), [{sla} : Slavic (Other)], {sk} : Slovak, {sl} : Slovenian,
{sog} : Sogdian, {so} : Somali, {son} : Songhai, {snk} : Soninke, {wen} :
Sorbian languages, {nso} : Northern Sotho, {st} : Southern Sotho, [{sai} :
South American Indian (Other)], {es} : Spanish, {suk} : Sukuma, {sux} :
Sumerian, {su} : Sundanese, {sus} : Susu, {sw} : Swahili, {ss} : Swati,
{sv} : Swedish, {syr} : Syriac, {tl} : Tagalog, {ty} : Tahitian, [{tai} :
Tai (Other)], {tg} : Tajik, {tmh} : Tamashek, {ta} : Tamil, {i-tao} : Tao,
{tt} : Tatar, {i-tay} : Tayal, {te} : Telugu, {ter} : Tereno, {tet} :
Tetum, {th} : Thai, {bo} : Tibetan, {tig} : Tigre, {ti} : Tigrinya, {tem} :
Timne, {tiv} : Tiv, {tli} : Tlingit, {tpi} : Tok Pisin, {tkl} : Tokelau,
{tog} : Tonga (Nyasa), {to} : Tonga (Tonga Islands), {tsi} : Tsimshian,
{ts} : Tsonga, {i-tsu} : Tsou, {tn} : Tswana, {tum} : Tumbuka, [{tup} :
Tupi languages], {tr} : Turkish, {ota} : Ottoman Turkish (1500-1928), {crh}
: Crimean Turkish, {tk} : Turkmen, {tvl} : Tuvalu, {tyv} : Tuvinian, {tw} :
Twi, {udm} : Udmurt, {uga} : Ugaritic, {ug} : Uighur, {uk} : Ukrainian,
{umb} : Umbundu, {und} : Undetermined, {ur} : Urdu, {uz} : Uzbek, {vai} :
Vai, {ve} : Venda, {vi} : Vietnamese, {vo} : Volapuk, {vot} : Votic, [{wak}
: Wakashan languages], {wa} : Walloon, {wal} : Walamo, {war} : Waray, {was}
: Washo, {cy} : Welsh, {wo} : Wolof, {x-...} : Unregistered (Semi-Private
Use), {xh} : Xhosa, {sah} : Yakut, {yao} : Yao, {yap} : Yapese, {ii} :
Sichuan Yi, {yi} : Yiddish, {yo} : Yoruba, [{ypk} : Yupik languages], {znd}
: Zande, [{zap} : Zapotec], {zen} : Zenaga, {za} : Zhuang, {zu} : Zulu,
{zun} : Zuni

=item SEE ALSO

=item COPYRIGHT AND DISCLAIMER

=item AUTHOR

=back

=head2 I18N::Langinfo - query locale information

=over 4

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

C<->, C<+>, C<.>, C<_NL_ADDRESS_POSTAL_FMT>, C<_NL_ADDRESS_COUNTRY_NAME>,
C<_NL_ADDRESS_COUNTRY_POST>, C<_NL_ADDRESS_COUNTRY_AB2>,
C<_NL_ADDRESS_COUNTRY_AB3>, C<_NL_ADDRESS_COUNTRY_CAR>,
C<_NL_ADDRESS_COUNTRY_NUM>, C<_NL_ADDRESS_COUNTRY_ISBN>,
C<_NL_ADDRESS_LANG_NAME>, C<_NL_ADDRESS_LANG_AB>, C<_NL_ADDRESS_LANG_TERM>,
C<_NL_ADDRESS_LANG_LIB>, C<_NL_IDENTIFICATION_TITLE>,
C<_NL_IDENTIFICATION_SOURCE>, C<_NL_IDENTIFICATION_ADDRESS>,
C<_NL_IDENTIFICATION_CONTACT>, C<_NL_IDENTIFICATION_EMAIL>,
C<_NL_IDENTIFICATION_TEL>, C<_NL_IDENTIFICATION_FAX>,
C<_NL_IDENTIFICATION_LANGUAGE>, C<_NL_IDENTIFICATION_TERRITORY>,
C<_NL_IDENTIFICATION_AUDIENCE>, C<_NL_IDENTIFICATION_APPLICATION>,
C<_NL_IDENTIFICATION_ABBREVIATION>, C<_NL_IDENTIFICATION_REVISION>,
C<_NL_IDENTIFICATION_DATE>, C<_NL_IDENTIFICATION_CATEGORY>,
C<_NL_MEASUREMENT_MEASUREMENT>, C<_NL_NAME_NAME_FMT>, C<_NL_NAME_NAME_GEN>,
C<_NL_NAME_NAME_MR>, C<_NL_NAME_NAME_MRS>, C<_NL_NAME_NAME_MISS>,
C<_NL_NAME_NAME_MS>, C<_NL_PAPER_HEIGHT>, C<_NL_PAPER_WIDTH>,
C<_NL_TELEPHONE_TEL_INT_FMT>, C<_NL_TELEPHONE_TEL_DOM_FMT>,
C<_NL_TELEPHONE_INT_SELECT>, C<_NL_TELEPHONE_INT_PREFIX>

=over 4

=item For systems without C<nl_langinfo>

C<ERA>, C<CODESET>, C<YESEXPR>, C<YESSTR>, C<NOEXPR>, C<NOSTR>,
C<ALT_DIGITS>, C<D_FMT>, C<T_FMT>, C<D_T_FMT>, C<CRNCYSTR>, C<ERA_D_FMT>,
C<ERA_T_FMT>, C<ERA_D_T_FMT>, C<T_FMT_AMPM>, All C<_NL_I<foo>> items

=item EXPORT

=back

=item BUGS

=item SEE ALSO

=item AUTHOR

=item COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

=back

=head2 IO - load various IO modules

=over 4

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item DEPRECATED

=back

=head2 IO::Compress::Base - Base Class for IO::Compress modules

=over 4

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item SUPPORT

=item SEE ALSO

=item AUTHOR

=item MODIFICATION HISTORY

=item COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

=back

=head2 IO::Compress::Bzip2 - Write bzip2 files/buffers

=over 4

=item SYNOPSIS

=item DESCRIPTION

=item Functional Interface

=over 4

=item bzip2 $input_filename_or_reference => $output_filename_or_reference
[, OPTS]

A filename, A filehandle, A scalar reference, An array reference, An Input
FileGlob string, A filename, A filehandle, A scalar reference, An Array
Reference, An Output FileGlob

=item Notes

=item Optional Parameters

C<< AutoClose => 0|1 >>, C<< BinModeIn => 0|1 >>, C<< Append => 0|1 >>, A
Buffer, A Filename, A Filehandle

=item Oneshot Examples

=back

=item OO Interface

=over 4

=item Constructor

A filename, A filehandle, A scalar reference

=item Constructor Options

C<< AutoClose => 0|1 >>, C<< Append => 0|1 >>, A Buffer, A Filename, A
Filehandle, C<< BlockSize100K => number >>, C<< WorkFactor => number >>,
C<< Strict => 0|1 >>

=item Examples

=back

=item Methods

=over 4

=item print

=item printf

=item syswrite

=item write

=item flush

=item tell

=item eof
